
 

 

 
life is hard enough as it is for the

 
life is hard enough as it is for the

 
life is hard enough as it is for the
average person but imagine how much more

 
average person but imagine how much more

 
average person but imagine how much more
difficult it is for people who are

 
difficult it is for people who are

 
difficult it is for people who are
transgender they have to face ignorant
 
 
transgender they have to face ignorant
 
 
transgender they have to face ignorant
people go through transitioning and deal
 
 
people go through transitioning and deal
 
 
people go through transitioning and deal
with feelings of isolation there are
 
 
with feelings of isolation there are
 
 
with feelings of isolation there are
some transgender celebrities who really
 
 
some transgender celebrities who really
 
 
some transgender celebrities who really
do deserve a round of applause for
 
 
do deserve a round of applause for
 
 
do deserve a round of applause for
everything they've been through make
 
 
everything they've been through make
 
 
everything they've been through make
sure to keep watching until the end to
 
 
sure to keep watching until the end to
 
 
sure to keep watching until the end to
see what Minkus from Boy Meets World has
 
 
see what Minkus from Boy Meets World has
 
 
see what Minkus from Boy Meets World has
to do with American rapper chanel west
 
 
to do with American rapper chanel west
 
 
to do with American rapper chanel west
coast
 
 
coast
 
 
coast
before we get started make sure to like
 
 
before we get started make sure to like
 
 
before we get started make sure to like
this video and subscribe to our channel
 
 
this video and subscribe to our channel
 
 
this video and subscribe to our channel
for more fun videos and if you leave us
 
 
for more fun videos and if you leave us
 
 
for more fun videos and if you leave us
a comment below
 
 
a comment below
 
 
a comment below
you could win a $50 Amazon gift card
 
 
you could win a $50 Amazon gift card
 
 
you could win a $50 Amazon gift card
now here's ten transgender celebrities
 
 
now here's ten transgender celebrities
 
 
now here's ten transgender celebrities
we all admire Laverne Cox when it comes
 
 
we all admire Laverne Cox when it comes
 
 
we all admire Laverne Cox when it comes
to transgender celebrities Laverne Cox
 
 
to transgender celebrities Laverne Cox
 
 
to transgender celebrities Laverne Cox
is a name that you're probably familiar
 
 
is a name that you're probably familiar
 
 
is a name that you're probably familiar
with Laverne is a trans woman who first
 
 
with Laverne is a trans woman who first
 
 
with Laverne is a trans woman who first
rose to fame after starring on the hit
 
 
rose to fame after starring on the hit
 
 
rose to fame after starring on the hit
TV show orange is the new black she grew
 
 
TV show orange is the new black she grew
 
 
TV show orange is the new black she grew
up in Alabama and was constantly bullied
 
 
up in Alabama and was constantly bullied
 
 
up in Alabama and was constantly bullied
by others for being too feminine
 
 
by others for being too feminine
 
 
by others for being too feminine
Laverne even had to beg her mom to let
 
 
Laverne even had to beg her mom to let
 
 
Laverne even had to beg her mom to let
her take dance classes when she was
 
 
her take dance classes when she was
 
 
her take dance classes when she was
younger her mom eventually gave in and
 
 
younger her mom eventually gave in and
 
 
younger her mom eventually gave in and
signed her up for tap and jazz but she
 
 
signed her up for tap and jazz but she
 
 
signed her up for tap and jazz but she
didn't let Laverne take a ballet because
 
 
didn't let Laverne take a ballet because
 
 
didn't let Laverne take a ballet because
she thought that it was too girly
 
 
she thought that it was too girly
 
 
she thought that it was too girly
Laverne always knew that she was a girl
 
 
Laverne always knew that she was a girl
 
 
Laverne always knew that she was a girl
but pushed those feelings away because
 
 
but pushed those feelings away because
 
 
but pushed those feelings away because
she thought that it was sinful she even
 
 
she thought that it was sinful she even
 
 
she thought that it was sinful she even
once swallowed a whole bottle of pills
 
 
once swallowed a whole bottle of pills
 
 
once swallowed a whole bottle of pills
in the 6th grade because she was so
 
 
in the 6th grade because she was so
 
 
in the 6th grade because she was so
ashamed of herself Laverne is thankfully
 
 
ashamed of herself Laverne is thankfully
 
 
ashamed of herself Laverne is thankfully
in a much better place now that she's
 
 
in a much better place now that she's
 
 
in a much better place now that she's
living her dreams as an actress she even
 
 
living her dreams as an actress she even
 
 
living her dreams as an actress she even
thinks that America is doing much better
 
 
thinks that America is doing much better
 
 
thinks that America is doing much better
at accepting trans people today as
 
 
at accepting trans people today as
 
 
at accepting trans people today as
opposed to how things were when she was
 
 
opposed to how things were when she was
 
 
opposed to how things were when she was
still struggling with her identity
 
 
still struggling with her identity
 
 
still struggling with her identity
nowadays Laverne uses her fame to fight
 
 
nowadays Laverne uses her fame to fight
 
 
nowadays Laverne uses her fame to fight
for trans rights she is such an
 
 
for trans rights she is such an
 
 
for trans rights she is such an
inspiring woman and we love that she is
 
 
inspiring woman and we love that she is
 
 
inspiring woman and we love that she is
so committed to helping her community
 
 
so committed to helping her community
 
 
so committed to helping her community
she even once told a young trans girl
 
 
she even once told a young trans girl
 
 
she even once told a young trans girl
remember honey transgender is beautiful
 
 
remember honey transgender is beautiful
 
 
remember honey transgender is beautiful
how amazing is she
 
 
how amazing is she
 
 
how amazing is she
jazz Jennings jazz Jennings as a trans
 
 
jazz Jennings jazz Jennings as a trans
 
 
jazz Jennings jazz Jennings as a trans
girl who first became famous after she
 
 
girl who first became famous after she
 
 
girl who first became famous after she
here in a televised interview with
 
 
here in a televised interview with
 
 
here in a televised interview with
Barbara Walters when she was just six
 
 
Barbara Walters when she was just six
 
 
Barbara Walters when she was just six
years old
 
 
years old
 
 
years old
since then jazz has grown up on TV with
 
 
since then jazz has grown up on TV with
 
 
since then jazz has grown up on TV with
the intention of showing the world what
 
 
the intention of showing the world what
 
 
the intention of showing the world what
it's like to be a trans kid ever since
 
 
it's like to be a trans kid ever since
 
 
it's like to be a trans kid ever since
she could form her own thoughts jazz
 
 
she could form her own thoughts jazz
 
 
she could form her own thoughts jazz
knew that she was a girl trapped inside
 
 
knew that she was a girl trapped inside
 
 
knew that she was a girl trapped inside
a boy's body she'd always steal her
 
 
a boy's body she'd always steal her
 
 
a boy's body she'd always steal her
sister's clothes and would even walk
 
 
sister's clothes and would even walk
 
 
sister's clothes and would even walk
around the house in heels as a toddler
 
 
around the house in heels as a toddler
 
 
around the house in heels as a toddler
when her parents would call her a boy
 
 
when her parents would call her a boy
 
 
when her parents would call her a boy
when she was younger she would
 
 
when she was younger she would
 
 
when she was younger she would
immediately correct them by saying that
 
 
immediately correct them by saying that
 
 
immediately correct them by saying that
she was a girl jazz even believed that a
 
 
she was a girl jazz even believed that a
 
 
she was a girl jazz even believed that a
fairy would one day visit her to change
 
 
fairy would one day visit her to change
 
 
fairy would one day visit her to change
her boy parts into girl parts
 
 
her boy parts into girl parts
 
 
her boy parts into girl parts
thankfully her family became super
 
 
thankfully her family became super
 
 
thankfully her family became super
supportive of her once they found out
 
 
supportive of her once they found out
 
 
supportive of her once they found out
that she was actually transgendered
 
 
that she was actually transgendered
 
 
that she was actually transgendered
today jazz is a popular youtuber and
 
 
today jazz is a popular youtuber and
 
 
today jazz is a popular youtuber and
even stars in her own TV show on TLC
 
 
even stars in her own TV show on TLC
 
 
even stars in her own TV show on TLC
thanks to her celebrity she's been
 
 
thanks to her celebrity she's been
 
 
thanks to her celebrity she's been
helping to demystify what it means to be
 
 
helping to demystify what it means to be
 
 
helping to demystify what it means to be
trans she was also included on a list of
 
 
trans she was also included on a list of
 
 
trans she was also included on a list of
Time Magazine's top 25 most influential
 
 
Time Magazine's top 25 most influential
 
 
Time Magazine's top 25 most influential
teens of 2014 what we find most
 
 
teens of 2014 what we find most
 
 
teens of 2014 what we find most
inspiring about jazz is that she doesn't
 
 
inspiring about jazz is that she doesn't
 
 
inspiring about jazz is that she doesn't
care what people think about her when
 
 
care what people think about her when
 
 
care what people think about her when
asked about how she feels when people
 
 
asked about how she feels when people
 
 
asked about how she feels when people
judge her she responded the only opinion
 
 
judge her she responded the only opinion
 
 
judge her she responded the only opinion
that really affects me is my own opinion
 
 
that really affects me is my own opinion
 
 
that really affects me is my own opinion
of myself because I determined the way I
 
 
of myself because I determined the way I
 
 
of myself because I determined the way I
am not anyone else Chaz Bono when Sonny
 
 
am not anyone else Chaz Bono when Sonny
 
 
am not anyone else Chaz Bono when Sonny
and Cher welcomed their little girl
 
 
and Cher welcomed their little girl
 
 
and Cher welcomed their little girl
chastity into the world we don't think
 
 
chastity into the world we don't think
 
 
chastity into the world we don't think
that they ever thought that she would
 
 
that they ever thought that she would
 
 
that they ever thought that she would
want to transition to a heat but that
 
 
want to transition to a heat but that
 
 
want to transition to a heat but that
did end up happening and chastity
 
 
did end up happening and chastity
 
 
did end up happening and chastity
started presenting herself as Chaz in
 
 
started presenting herself as Chaz in
 
 
started presenting herself as Chaz in
the late 2000s life before the
 
 
the late 2000s life before the
 
 
the late 2000s life before the
transition was so hard for Chaz that he
 
 
transition was so hard for Chaz that he
 
 
transition was so hard for Chaz that he
still finds it painful to look at
 
 
still finds it painful to look at
 
 
still finds it painful to look at
pictures of himself as chastity today
 
 
pictures of himself as chastity today
 
 
pictures of himself as chastity today
when he was 40 years old
 
 
when he was 40 years old
 
 
when he was 40 years old
Chaz finally went under the knife to
 
 
Chaz finally went under the knife to
 
 
Chaz finally went under the knife to
have his breasts removed so that he
 
 
have his breasts removed so that he
 
 
have his breasts removed so that he
could truly feel like a man he even
 
 
could truly feel like a man he even
 
 
could truly feel like a man he even
began to receive testosterone shots to
 
 
began to receive testosterone shots to
 
 
began to receive testosterone shots to
make him have facial hair and deepen his
 
 
make him have facial hair and deepen his
 
 
make him have facial hair and deepen his
voice besides being a LGBTQ rights
 
 
voice besides being a LGBTQ rights
 
 
voice besides being a LGBTQ rights
advocate
 
 
advocate
 
 
advocate
Chaz followed in his parents
 
 
Chaz followed in his parents
 
 
Chaz followed in his parents
entertainment footsteps and became an
 
 
entertainment footsteps and became an
 
 
entertainment footsteps and became an
actor he was even the first trans man to
 
 
actor he was even the first trans man to
 
 
actor he was even the first trans man to
play a mail rule in a feature film Kaz
 
 
play a mail rule in a feature film Kaz
 
 
play a mail rule in a feature film Kaz
has also been lucky enough to have
 
 
has also been lucky enough to have
 
 
has also been lucky enough to have
worked on The Secret Life of the
 
 
worked on The Secret Life of the
 
 
worked on The Secret Life of the
American team the bold and the beautiful
 
 
American team the bold and the beautiful
 
 
American team the bold and the beautiful
and American Horror Story
 
 
and American Horror Story
 
 
and American Horror Story
but how did cher feel about gaining
 
 
but how did cher feel about gaining
 
 
but how did cher feel about gaining
another son she's admitted that she had
 
 
another son she's admitted that she had
 
 
another son she's admitted that she had
a hard time once Chad began to
 
 
a hard time once Chad began to
 
 
a hard time once Chad began to
transition because it's a strange change
 
 
transition because it's a strange change
 
 
transition because it's a strange change
for a mother to go through she even
 
 
for a mother to go through she even
 
 
for a mother to go through she even
still has trouble using the correct
 
 
still has trouble using the correct
 
 
still has trouble using the correct
pronouns when talking about him but one
 
 
pronouns when talking about him but one
 
 
pronouns when talking about him but one
thing's for sure no one could be more
 
 
thing's for sure no one could be more
 
 
thing's for sure no one could be more
proud of who Chas has become than his
 
 
proud of who Chas has become than his
 
 
proud of who Chas has become than his
mother Carmen Carrera
 
 
mother Carmen Carrera
 
 
mother Carmen Carrera
Carmen Carrera is a celebrity trans
 
 
Carmen Carrera is a celebrity trans
 
 
Carmen Carrera is a celebrity trans
woman who became famous after appearing
 
 
woman who became famous after appearing
 
 
woman who became famous after appearing
on season three of RuPaul's Drag Race
 
 
on season three of RuPaul's Drag Race
 
 
on season three of RuPaul's Drag Race
she actually used to do drag for years
 
 
she actually used to do drag for years
 
 
she actually used to do drag for years
before she finally transitioned after
 
 
before she finally transitioned after
 
 
before she finally transitioned after
being kicked off a RuPaul show
 
 
being kicked off a RuPaul show
 
 
being kicked off a RuPaul show
the most difficult thing about
 
 
the most difficult thing about
 
 
the most difficult thing about
transitioning in the public eye is that
 
 
transitioning in the public eye is that
 
 
transitioning in the public eye is that
people had a harder time accepting her
 
 
people had a harder time accepting her
 
 
people had a harder time accepting her
that's because they were so used to her
 
 
that's because they were so used to her
 
 
that's because they were so used to her
being a man who did drag but she hopes
 
 
being a man who did drag but she hopes
 
 
being a man who did drag but she hopes
that her story will help to normalize
 
 
that her story will help to normalize
 
 
that her story will help to normalize
transitioning these days Carmen works as
 
 
transitioning these days Carmen works as
 
 
transitioning these days Carmen works as
a model and walked down pat walks around
 
 
a model and walked down pat walks around
 
 
a model and walked down pat walks around
the world but have you heard about the
 
 
the world but have you heard about the
 
 
the world but have you heard about the
drama that she stirred up with rue
 
 
drama that she stirred up with rue
 
 
drama that she stirred up with rue
carmen found herself in hot water after
 
 
carmen found herself in hot water after
 
 
carmen found herself in hot water after
she called out the drag race for pulling
 
 
she called out the drag race for pulling
 
 
she called out the drag race for pulling
a game called female or [ __ ] she said
 
 
a game called female or [ __ ] she said
 
 
a game called female or [ __ ] she said
that she male was an extremely offensive
 
 
that she male was an extremely offensive
 
 
that she male was an extremely offensive
term and that the show should be more
 
 
term and that the show should be more
 
 
term and that the show should be more
respectful of what trans people have to
 
 
respectful of what trans people have to
 
 
respectful of what trans people have to
go through Carmen actually faced a lot
 
 
go through Carmen actually faced a lot
 
 
go through Carmen actually faced a lot
of backlash for speaking out and some of
 
 
of backlash for speaking out and some of
 
 
of backlash for speaking out and some of
the drag race girls accused her of
 
 
the drag race girls accused her of
 
 
the drag race girls accused her of
biting the hand that fed her we admire
 
 
biting the hand that fed her we admire
 
 
biting the hand that fed her we admire
her for standing up for the rights of
 
 
her for standing up for the rights of
 
 
her for standing up for the rights of
trans people everywhere all she wanted
 
 
trans people everywhere all she wanted
 
 
trans people everywhere all she wanted
was for people to think about the
 
 
was for people to think about the
 
 
was for people to think about the
language that they use and for everyone
 
 
language that they use and for everyone
 
 
language that they use and for everyone
to respect one another thankfully there
 
 
to respect one another thankfully there
 
 
to respect one another thankfully there
is no bad blood between her and RuPaul
 
 
is no bad blood between her and RuPaul
 
 
is no bad blood between her and RuPaul
Carmen has even said that she would
 
 
Carmen has even said that she would
 
 
Carmen has even said that she would
still give her a hug if she bumped into
 
 
still give her a hug if she bumped into
 
 
still give her a hug if she bumped into
her on the street
 
 
her on the street
 
 
her on the street
Andreea page before Andreea page
 
 
Andreea page before Andreea page
 
 
Andreea page before Andreea page
transition to being a woman she was
 
 
transition to being a woman she was
 
 
transition to being a woman she was
known as Andre page in the fashion world
 
 
known as Andre page in the fashion world
 
 
known as Andre page in the fashion world
Andre was one of the only male models in
 
 
Andre was one of the only male models in
 
 
Andre was one of the only male models in
the world who was used on the catwalks
 
 
the world who was used on the catwalks
 
 
the world who was used on the catwalks
to show off women's clothing in fact he
 
 
to show off women's clothing in fact he
 
 
to show off women's clothing in fact he
quickly became an it figure due to his
 
 
quickly became an it figure due to his
 
 
quickly became an it figure due to his
androgynous look but he underwent
 
 
androgynous look but he underwent
 
 
androgynous look but he underwent
reassignment surgery in 2014 to finally
 
 
reassignment surgery in 2014 to finally
 
 
reassignment surgery in 2014 to finally
be able to live his true life as a woman
 
 
be able to live his true life as a woman
 
 
be able to live his true life as a woman
aundrea told Vogue that transitioning
 
 
aundrea told Vogue that transitioning
 
 
aundrea told Vogue that transitioning
isn't as easy as just going to a surgeon
 
 
isn't as easy as just going to a surgeon
 
 
isn't as easy as just going to a surgeon
and asking them to change your body
 
 
and asking them to change your body
 
 
and asking them to change your body
parts she had to undergo psychiatric
 
 
parts she had to undergo psychiatric
 
 
parts she had to undergo psychiatric
evaluations and strict testing before
 
 
evaluations and strict testing before
 
 
evaluations and strict testing before
she was allowed to get surgery done she
 
 
she was allowed to get surgery done she
 
 
she was allowed to get surgery done she
only told her menswear agency about the
 
 
only told her menswear agency about the
 
 
only told her menswear agency about the
operation just two weeks before it was
 
 
operation just two weeks before it was
 
 
operation just two weeks before it was
done but they were all super supportive
 
 
done but they were all super supportive
 
 
done but they were all super supportive
about her becoming a female model
 
 
about her becoming a female model
 
 
about her becoming a female model
transitioning is always hard but it's
 
 
transitioning is always hard but it's
 
 
transitioning is always hard but it's
easier when the people you trust to have
 
 
easier when the people you trust to have
 
 
easier when the people you trust to have
your back
 
 
your back
 
 
your back
we admire andreia for staying true to
 
 
we admire andreia for staying true to
 
 
we admire andreia for staying true to
who she was on the inside even if she
 
 
who she was on the inside even if she
 
 
who she was on the inside even if she
wasn't sure how the fashion world would
 
 
wasn't sure how the fashion world would
 
 
wasn't sure how the fashion world would
respond to the change she actually made
 
 
respond to the change she actually made
 
 
respond to the change she actually made
history soon after as the first
 
 
history soon after as the first
 
 
history soon after as the first
transgender model to be on the cover of
 
 
transgender model to be on the cover of
 
 
transgender model to be on the cover of
GQ Portugal if she could have a
 
 
GQ Portugal if she could have a
 
 
GQ Portugal if she could have a
conversation with her younger self
 
 
conversation with her younger self
 
 
conversation with her younger self
aundrea would tell her that she will one
 
 
aundrea would tell her that she will one
 
 
aundrea would tell her that she will one
day grow into the woman that she's
 
 
day grow into the woman that she's
 
 
day grow into the woman that she's
always wanted to be Fallon Fox Fallon
 
 
always wanted to be Fallon Fox Fallon
 
 
always wanted to be Fallon Fox Fallon
Fox is a trans woman who works in a
 
 
Fox is a trans woman who works in a
 
 
Fox is a trans woman who works in a
field that has yet to show total
 
 
field that has yet to show total
 
 
field that has yet to show total
acceptance of transgender people she is
 
 
acceptance of transgender people she is
 
 
acceptance of transgender people she is
a woman's featherweight MMA fighter
 
 
a woman's featherweight MMA fighter
 
 
a woman's featherweight MMA fighter
Fallon was forced to come out about
 
 
Fallon was forced to come out about
 
 
Fallon was forced to come out about
being transgender after a reporter got
 
 
being transgender after a reporter got
 
 
being transgender after a reporter got
wind of her life pre-transition when
 
 
wind of her life pre-transition when
 
 
wind of her life pre-transition when
Fallon first told her parents that she
 
 
Fallon first told her parents that she
 
 
Fallon first told her parents that she
was transgender her mother didn't
 
 
was transgender her mother didn't
 
 
was transgender her mother didn't
respond well to the news and her dad
 
 
respond well to the news and her dad
 
 
respond well to the news and her dad
fell to earth and that she was probably
 
 
fell to earth and that she was probably
 
 
fell to earth and that she was probably
just gay she was put into gay conversion
 
 
just gay she was put into gay conversion
 
 
just gay she was put into gay conversion
therapy so that she could be turned back
 
 
therapy so that she could be turned back
 
 
therapy so that she could be turned back
into a straight man but Fallon knew
 
 
into a straight man but Fallon knew
 
 
into a straight man but Fallon knew
felt inside was right and decided to
 
 
felt inside was right and decided to
 
 
felt inside was right and decided to
transition without the blessing of her
 
 
transition without the blessing of her
 
 
transition without the blessing of her
parents as a first transgender fighter
 
 
parents as a first transgender fighter
 
 
parents as a first transgender fighter
in MMA history a lot of people accused
 
 
in MMA history a lot of people accused
 
 
in MMA history a lot of people accused
her of having an advantage over her
 
 
her of having an advantage over her
 
 
her of having an advantage over her
female born competitors but Fallon
 
 
female born competitors but Fallon
 
 
female born competitors but Fallon
argues that she's been doing hormone
 
 
argues that she's been doing hormone
 
 
argues that she's been doing hormone
therapy for so long that there's nothing
 
 
therapy for so long that there's nothing
 
 
therapy for so long that there's nothing
male about her anymore the worst part
 
 
male about her anymore the worst part
 
 
male about her anymore the worst part
about coming out is that the people she
 
 
about coming out is that the people she
 
 
about coming out is that the people she
trained with no longer see her as a
 
 
trained with no longer see her as a
 
 
trained with no longer see her as a
regular woman she was able to get away
 
 
regular woman she was able to get away
 
 
regular woman she was able to get away
with being just another normal female
 
 
with being just another normal female
 
 
with being just another normal female
athlete for almost six years the
 
 
athlete for almost six years the
 
 
athlete for almost six years the
scrutiny that Fallon faces in the MMA
 
 
scrutiny that Fallon faces in the MMA
 
 
scrutiny that Fallon faces in the MMA
world is unacceptable but we admire her
 
 
world is unacceptable but we admire her
 
 
world is unacceptable but we admire her
for still continuing to fight she is
 
 
for still continuing to fight she is
 
 
for still continuing to fight she is
showing the world that she will not back
 
 
showing the world that she will not back
 
 
showing the world that she will not back
down because of transphobia and she is
 
 
down because of transphobia and she is
 
 
down because of transphobia and she is
painting the way for transgender
 
 
painting the way for transgender
 
 
painting the way for transgender
athletes everywhere
 
 
athletes everywhere
 
 
athletes everywhere
Gina Rosero the 14 Aras arrow came out
 
 
Gina Rosero the 14 Aras arrow came out
 
 
Gina Rosero the 14 Aras arrow came out
as transgender everyone knew her as a
 
 
as transgender everyone knew her as a
 
 
as transgender everyone knew her as a
model they only learned that she was a
 
 
model they only learned that she was a
 
 
model they only learned that she was a
boy at first when she announced it
 
 
boy at first when she announced it
 
 
boy at first when she announced it
during a TED talk back in 2014
 
 
during a TED talk back in 2014
 
 
during a TED talk back in 2014
Gina was super nervous to give her
 
 
Gina was super nervous to give her
 
 
Gina was super nervous to give her
speech because she knew that it would
 
 
speech because she knew that it would
 
 
speech because she knew that it would
change her life forever but she also
 
 
change her life forever but she also
 
 
change her life forever but she also
felt like she was finally about to set
 
 
felt like she was finally about to set
 
 
felt like she was finally about to set
herself free
 
 
herself free
 
 
herself free
she had gender reassignment surgery when
 
 
she had gender reassignment surgery when
 
 
she had gender reassignment surgery when
she was just 19 years old which is
 
 
she was just 19 years old which is
 
 
she was just 19 years old which is
something that the majority of her
 
 
something that the majority of her
 
 
something that the majority of her
friends didn't even know before her TED
 
 
friends didn't even know before her TED
 
 
friends didn't even know before her TED
talk her worst fear was that the media
 
 
talk her worst fear was that the media
 
 
talk her worst fear was that the media
would find out the truth about her which
 
 
would find out the truth about her which
 
 
would find out the truth about her which
could cause people to not view her as a
 
 
could cause people to not view her as a
 
 
could cause people to not view her as a
real woman anymore
 
 
real woman anymore
 
 
real woman anymore
her agents had no idea that she was
 
 
her agents had no idea that she was
 
 
her agents had no idea that she was
transgender
 
 
transgender
 
 
transgender
until her speech happened but they said
 
 
until her speech happened but they said
 
 
until her speech happened but they said
that the news didn't change anything
 
 
that the news didn't change anything
 
 
that the news didn't change anything
Gina decided to come forward about her
 
 
Gina decided to come forward about her
 
 
Gina decided to come forward about her
past because she wanted to inspire other
 
 
past because she wanted to inspire other
 
 
past because she wanted to inspire other
trans people to live truthfully without
 
 
trans people to live truthfully without
 
 
trans people to live truthfully without
feeling ashamed she was only five years
 
 
feeling ashamed she was only five years
 
 
feeling ashamed she was only five years
old when she first told her mom that she
 
 
old when she first told her mom that she
 
 
old when she first told her mom that she
was a girl thankfully her family fully
 
 
was a girl thankfully her family fully
 
 
was a girl thankfully her family fully
accepted her for who she was when
 
 
accepted her for who she was when
 
 
accepted her for who she was when
talking about how she labels herself
 
 
talking about how she labels herself
 
 
talking about how she labels herself
Gina admitted that she likes to call
 
 
Gina admitted that she likes to call
 
 
Gina admitted that she likes to call
herself a trans model instead of a model
 
 
herself a trans model instead of a model
 
 
herself a trans model instead of a model
because she wants to represent the trans
 
 
because she wants to represent the trans
 
 
because she wants to represent the trans
community her hope for the future is
 
 
community her hope for the future is
 
 
community her hope for the future is
that the fashion world will hire more
 
 
that the fashion world will hire more
 
 
that the fashion world will hire more
trans models because their stories need
 
 
trans models because their stories need
 
 
trans models because their stories need
to be told
 
 
to be told
 
 
to be told
Erica urban supermodel Erika Ervin
 
 
Erica urban supermodel Erika Ervin
 
 
Erica urban supermodel Erika Ervin
wasn't always known as Erika she was
 
 
wasn't always known as Erika she was
 
 
wasn't always known as Erika she was
originally called William before
 
 
originally called William before
 
 
originally called William before
she transitioned back in 2004 with an
 
 
she transitioned back in 2004 with an
 
 
she transitioned back in 2004 with an
astonishing height of 6/8 she is the
 
 
astonishing height of 6/8 she is the
 
 
astonishing height of 6/8 she is the
tallest female model in the world when
 
 
tallest female model in the world when
 
 
tallest female model in the world when
erica was thinking about telling the
 
 
erica was thinking about telling the
 
 
erica was thinking about telling the
public about her transition after bills
 
 
public about her transition after bills
 
 
public about her transition after bills
skarsgård told her that she should start
 
 
skarsgård told her that she should start
 
 
skarsgård told her that she should start
by talking about it in Sweden the
 
 
by talking about it in Sweden the
 
 
by talking about it in Sweden the
Swedish people are super accepting and
 
 
Swedish people are super accepting and
 
 
Swedish people are super accepting and
they would help her feel comfortable
 
 
they would help her feel comfortable
 
 
they would help her feel comfortable
about telling her story Erika is also an
 
 
about telling her story Erika is also an
 
 
about telling her story Erika is also an
actress and she played the role of
 
 
actress and she played the role of
 
 
actress and she played the role of
Amazon Eve on American Horror Story
 
 
Amazon Eve on American Horror Story
 
 
Amazon Eve on American Horror Story
freak show since they were looking for a
 
 
freak show since they were looking for a
 
 
freak show since they were looking for a
man to play a woman she decided to
 
 
man to play a woman she decided to
 
 
man to play a woman she decided to
audition for the part dressed as a man
 
 
audition for the part dressed as a man
 
 
audition for the part dressed as a man
it was only after she was given the part
 
 
it was only after she was given the part
 
 
it was only after she was given the part
that she told them that she is
 
 
that she told them that she is
 
 
that she told them that she is
transgender on Sat air Kovas co-stars
 
 
transgender on Sat air Kovas co-stars
 
 
transgender on Sat air Kovas co-stars
with the smallest woman in the world who
 
 
with the smallest woman in the world who
 
 
with the smallest woman in the world who
stands out only to one it's funny to see
 
 
stands out only to one it's funny to see
 
 
stands out only to one it's funny to see
these two opposites together but it's
 
 
these two opposites together but it's
 
 
these two opposites together but it's
even more inspiring that they get to
 
 
even more inspiring that they get to
 
 
even more inspiring that they get to
show the world that they're different
 
 
show the world that they're different
 
 
show the world that they're different
and proud Erika's height used to make
 
 
and proud Erika's height used to make
 
 
and proud Erika's height used to make
her feel like a monster but she's
 
 
her feel like a monster but she's
 
 
her feel like a monster but she's
learned to accept herself for who she is
 
 
learned to accept herself for who she is
 
 
learned to accept herself for who she is
sadly her family was not accepting of
 
 
sadly her family was not accepting of
 
 
sadly her family was not accepting of
her when she transitioned and she lost
 
 
her when she transitioned and she lost
 
 
her when she transitioned and she lost
contact with them all during that tough
 
 
contact with them all during that tough
 
 
contact with them all during that tough
period but Erika doesn't let that get in
 
 
period but Erika doesn't let that get in
 
 
period but Erika doesn't let that get in
the way of her happiness Caitlyn Jenner
 
 
the way of her happiness Caitlyn Jenner
 
 
the way of her happiness Caitlyn Jenner
Bruce Jenner's transition to Caitlyn
 
 
Bruce Jenner's transition to Caitlyn
 
 
Bruce Jenner's transition to Caitlyn
Jenner was probably one of the most
 
 
Jenner was probably one of the most
 
 
Jenner was probably one of the most
high-profile transitions ever documented
 
 
high-profile transitions ever documented
 
 
high-profile transitions ever documented
when Caitlyn was a young boy she was
 
 
when Caitlyn was a young boy she was
 
 
when Caitlyn was a young boy she was
fascinated by the clothes that belonged
 
 
fascinated by the clothes that belonged
 
 
fascinated by the clothes that belonged
to her older sister and mom she was very
 
 
to her older sister and mom she was very
 
 
to her older sister and mom she was very
confused about what she was feeling
 
 
confused about what she was feeling
 
 
confused about what she was feeling
inside and didn't know how to deal with
 
 
inside and didn't know how to deal with
 
 
inside and didn't know how to deal with
it so she threw herself into athletics
 
 
it so she threw herself into athletics
 
 
it so she threw herself into athletics
and even won an Olympic gold medal in
 
 
and even won an Olympic gold medal in
 
 
and even won an Olympic gold medal in
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
failed miserably due to her unhappiness
 
 
failed miserably due to her unhappiness
 
 
failed miserably due to her unhappiness
with herself she even tried to talk to
 
 
with herself she even tried to talk to
 
 
with herself she even tried to talk to
her second wife about her gender
 
 
her second wife about her gender
 
 
her second wife about her gender
confusion but Linda wanted nothing to do
 
 
confusion but Linda wanted nothing to do
 
 
confusion but Linda wanted nothing to do
with it by the time that Caitlyn started
 
 
with it by the time that Caitlyn started
 
 
with it by the time that Caitlyn started
dating Kris Jenner she started the
 
 
dating Kris Jenner she started the
 
 
dating Kris Jenner she started the
relationship out by telling Chris that
 
 
relationship out by telling Chris that
 
 
relationship out by telling Chris that
she had been taking hormone pills for
 
 
she had been taking hormone pills for
 
 
she had been taking hormone pills for
the past four and a half years however
 
 
the past four and a half years however
 
 
the past four and a half years however
Chris denies this and has even written a
 
 
Chris denies this and has even written a
 
 
Chris denies this and has even written a
book suggesting that Bruce married her
 
 
book suggesting that Bruce married her
 
 
book suggesting that Bruce married her
without telling her what was really
 
 
without telling her what was really
 
 
without telling her what was really
going on but the two made a good team
 
 
going on but the two made a good team
 
 
going on but the two made a good team
and they raised their children the
 
 
and they raised their children the
 
 
and they raised their children the
beloved stars of Keeping Up with the
 
 
beloved stars of Keeping Up with the
 
 
beloved stars of Keeping Up with the
Kardashians
 
 
Kardashians
 
 
Kardashians
it was a bit shocking for the
 
 
it was a bit shocking for the
 
 
it was a bit shocking for the
kardashian-jenner clan to have their dad
 
 
kardashian-jenner clan to have their dad
 
 
kardashian-jenner clan to have their dad
transition to a woman but they've all
 
 
transition to a woman but they've all
 
 
transition to a woman but they've all
been super supportive of Caitlyn's
 
 
been super supportive of Caitlyn's
 
 
been super supportive of Caitlyn's
journey Caitlyn had everything to lose
 
 
journey Caitlyn had everything to lose
 
 
journey Caitlyn had everything to lose
when she decided to transition publicly
 
 
when she decided to transition publicly
 
 
when she decided to transition publicly
but she still bravely decided to do it
 
 
but she still bravely decided to do it
 
 
but she still bravely decided to do it
when she was 65 years old she is living
 
 
when she was 65 years old she is living
 
 
when she was 65 years old she is living
proof that it's never too late to be the
 
 
proof that it's never too late to be the
 
 
proof that it's never too late to be the
person that you truly want to be chanel
 
 
person that you truly want to be chanel
 
 
person that you truly want to be chanel
west coast
 
 
west coast
 
 
west coast
did you know that there's a lot of
 
 
did you know that there's a lot of
 
 
did you know that there's a lot of
people who think that Lee Norris the
 
 
people who think that Lee Norris the
 
 
people who think that Lee Norris the
actor who played Stuart Minkus on Boy
 
 
actor who played Stuart Minkus on Boy
 
 
actor who played Stuart Minkus on Boy
Meets World became a trans woman if you
 
 
Meets World became a trans woman if you
 
 
Meets World became a trans woman if you
don't remember Minkus he was the blonde
 
 
don't remember Minkus he was the blonde
 
 
don't remember Minkus he was the blonde
brainy kid with the goofy glasses
 
 
brainy kid with the goofy glasses
 
 
brainy kid with the goofy glasses
because of their similar features
 
 
because of their similar features
 
 
because of their similar features
there's a rumor going around that Lee
 
 
there's a rumor going around that Lee
 
 
there's a rumor going around that Lee
Norris became chanel west coast
 
 
Norris became chanel west coast
 
 
Norris became chanel west coast
we have to admit that they do kind of
 
 
we have to admit that they do kind of
 
 
we have to admit that they do kind of
look alike but we have no idea how this
 
 
look alike but we have no idea how this
 
 
look alike but we have no idea how this
rumors started Lee Norris and chanel
 
 
rumors started Lee Norris and chanel
 
 
rumors started Lee Norris and chanel
west coast are two separate people with
 
 
west coast are two separate people with
 
 
west coast are two separate people with
separate careers in their entertainment
 
 
separate careers in their entertainment
 
 
separate careers in their entertainment
Fitz Lee is still an actor today and was
 
 
Fitz Lee is still an actor today and was
 
 
Fitz Lee is still an actor today and was
last featured on the walking dead Girl
 
 
last featured on the walking dead Girl
 
 
last featured on the walking dead Girl
Meets World and gone girl chanel west
 
 
Meets World and gone girl chanel west
 
 
Meets World and gone girl chanel west
coast is a rapper and actress best known
 
 
coast is a rapper and actress best known
 
 
coast is a rapper and actress best known
for her role as a rapping secretary on
 
 
for her role as a rapping secretary on
 
 
for her role as a rapping secretary on
Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory
 
 
Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory
 
 
Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory
when Chanel was asked to clear up the
 
 
when Chanel was asked to clear up the
 
 
when Chanel was asked to clear up the
mangas rumor by lmn oh la la she said
 
 
mangas rumor by lmn oh la la she said
 
 
mangas rumor by lmn oh la la she said
that she feels bad for Lee Norris
 
 
that she feels bad for Lee Norris
 
 
that she feels bad for Lee Norris
because people truly believe that he's
 
 
because people truly believe that he's
 
 
because people truly believe that he's
transitioned into her nobody realizes
 
 
transitioned into her nobody realizes
 
 
transitioned into her nobody realizes
that he still has a budding acting
 
 
that he still has a budding acting
 
 
that he still has a budding acting
career that's because the world doesn't
 
 
career that's because the world doesn't
 
 
career that's because the world doesn't
even think that he exists in his male
 
 
even think that he exists in his male
 
 
even think that he exists in his male
form anymore this lately all started
 
 
form anymore this lately all started
 
 
form anymore this lately all started
because someone noticed that the two
 
 
because someone noticed that the two
 
 
because someone noticed that the two
look alike and thought that it would be
 
 
look alike and thought that it would be
 
 
look alike and thought that it would be
a funny joke
 
 
a funny joke
 
 
a funny joke
however transitioning is a very tough
 
 
however transitioning is a very tough
 
 
however transitioning is a very tough
thing for people to go through and it is
 
 
thing for people to go through and it is
 
 
thing for people to go through and it is
not a joking matter that's all for ten
 
 
not a joking matter that's all for ten
 
 
not a joking matter that's all for ten
transgender celebrities we all admire if
 
 
transgender celebrities we all admire if
 
 
transgender celebrities we all admire if
you want to watch another video check
 
 
you want to watch another video check
 
 
you want to watch another video check
out ten
 
 
out ten
 
 
out ten
labs no one knew were trans thanks for
 
 
labs no one knew were trans thanks for
 
 
labs no one knew were trans thanks for
watching

 
yo yo yo thought warriors

 
yo yo yo thought warriors

 
yo yo yo thought warriors
what is up

 
what is up

 
what is up
higher learning is on it is i van latham

 
higher learning is on it is i van latham

 
higher learning is on it is i van latham
jr and it's me rachel and lindsey

 
jr and it's me rachel and lindsey

 
jr and it's me rachel and lindsey
reporting from the pepto room
 
 
reporting from the pepto room
 
 
reporting from the pepto room
from the pepper
 
 
from the pepper
 
 
from the pepper
right
 
 
right
 
 
right
there see the pepto are those real
 
 
there see the pepto are those real
 
 
there see the pepto are those real
flowers right there nah
 
 
flowers right there nah
 
 
flowers right there nah
they're not
 
 
they're not
 
 
they're not
they're fake
 
 
they're fake
 
 
they're fake
yeah
 
 
 
 
remember uh uh
 
 
remember uh uh
 
 
remember uh uh
the plant that i bought oscar remember
 
 
the plant that i bought oscar remember
 
 
the plant that i bought oscar remember
him oh my god what happened to oscar
 
 
him oh my god what happened to oscar
 
 
him oh my god what happened to oscar
so oscar was bringing too many bugs into
 
 
so oscar was bringing too many bugs into
 
 
so oscar was bringing too many bugs into
the house so i had to get rid of oscar
 
 
the house so i had to get rid of oscar
 
 
the house so i had to get rid of oscar
and put about that should not be
 
 
and put about that should not be
 
 
and put about that should not be
happening what y'all got going on there
 
 
happening what y'all got going on there
 
 
happening what y'all got going on there
well no oscar was like
 
 
well no oscar was like
 
 
well no oscar was like
having bugs come in and they were
 
 
having bugs come in and they were
 
 
having bugs come in and they were
getting on oscar so i put oscar outside
 
 
getting on oscar so i put oscar outside
 
 
getting on oscar so i put oscar outside
oscar
 
 
oscar
 
 
oscar
had a very rough patch but i'm bringing
 
 
had a very rough patch but i'm bringing
 
 
had a very rough patch but i'm bringing
him back now oscar is green green green
 
 
him back now oscar is green green green
 
 
him back now oscar is green green green
wait
 
 
wait
 
 
wait
he's never left
 
 
he's never left
 
 
he's never left
well he's outside oh
 
 
well he's outside oh
 
 
well he's outside oh
and so
 
 
and so
 
 
and so
we can get some sun out there but oscar
 
 
we can get some sun out there but oscar
 
 
we can get some sun out there but oscar
is like
 
 
is like
 
 
is like
at first i'm not gonna lie out of sight
 
 
at first i'm not gonna lie out of sight
 
 
at first i'm not gonna lie out of sight
out of oscar
 
 
out of oscar
 
 
out of oscar
and then like it was like uh you know
 
 
and then like it was like uh you know
 
 
and then like it was like uh you know
it's a living thing so you gotta take
 
 
it's a living thing so you gotta take
 
 
it's a living thing so you gotta take
care of it i would let that happen to
 
 
care of it i would let that happen to
 
 
care of it i would let that happen to
bozeman so i think i not the same not
 
 
bozeman so i think i not the same not
 
 
bozeman so i think i not the same not
even close to the same thing okay one
 
 
even close to the same thing okay one
 
 
even close to the same thing okay one
has a soul
 
 
has a soul
 
 
has a soul
now
 
 
now
 
 
now
question god damn i hate i'm not a good
 
 
question god damn i hate i'm not a good
 
 
question god damn i hate i'm not a good
plant person and mind you now i'm in a
 
 
plant person and mind you now i'm in a
 
 
plant person and mind you now i'm in a
place where there's a bunch of them but
 
 
place where there's a bunch of them but
 
 
place where there's a bunch of them but
question did you
 
 
question did you
 
 
question did you
get oscar before or after you won an
 
 
get oscar before or after you won an
 
 
get oscar before or after you won an
oscar
 
 
oscar
 
 
oscar
i was before
 
 
i was before
 
 
i was before
so we manifested this we manifested it
 
 
so we manifested this we manifested it
 
 
so we manifested this we manifested it
okay okay i totally forgot about oscar
 
 
okay okay i totally forgot about oscar
 
 
okay okay i totally forgot about oscar
that's why you gotta keep him alive
 
 
that's why you gotta keep him alive
 
 
that's why you gotta keep him alive
you know i mean i keep oscar alive
 
 
you know i mean i keep oscar alive
 
 
you know i mean i keep oscar alive
okay he's he's not hope
 
 
okay he's he's not hope
 
 
okay he's he's not hope
yeah he's you know what i mean you know
 
 
yeah he's you know what i mean you know
 
 
yeah he's you know what i mean you know
like inside we're not keeping hope alive
 
 
like inside we're not keeping hope alive
 
 
like inside we're not keeping hope alive
here you gotta keep oscar thank you
 
 
here you gotta keep oscar thank you
 
 
here you gotta keep oscar thank you
alive uh
 
 
alive uh
 
 
alive uh
what'd you do this weekend you know
 
 
what'd you do this weekend you know
 
 
what'd you do this weekend you know
people have said that this is their
 
 
people have said that this is their
 
 
people have said that this is their
favorite part of the podcast the the
 
 
favorite part of the podcast the the
 
 
favorite part of the podcast the the
beginning banter of the podcast but you
 
 
beginning banter of the podcast but you
 
 
beginning banter of the podcast but you
know what i appreciate that and i'm glad
 
 
know what i appreciate that and i'm glad
 
 
know what i appreciate that and i'm glad
that thought warriors like it because i
 
 
that thought warriors like it because i
 
 
that thought warriors like it because i
feel like we used to do this in the
 
 
feel like we used to do this in the
 
 
feel like we used to do this in the
beginning and then we kind of
 
 
beginning and then we kind of
 
 
beginning and then we kind of
lost our way
 
 
lost our way
 
 
lost our way
as people seemed to do on the journey of
 
 
as people seemed to do on the journey of
 
 
as people seemed to do on the journey of
life and now we've come back to uh you
 
 
life and now we've come back to uh you
 
 
life and now we've come back to uh you
know what's us
 
 
know what's us
 
 
know what's us
yeah but what i do this weekend i had a
 
 
yeah but what i do this weekend i had a
 
 
yeah but what i do this weekend i had a
crazy i had a crazy weekend like a crazy
 
 
crazy i had a crazy weekend like a crazy
 
 
crazy i had a crazy weekend like a crazy
weekend what's the crazy one well busy i
 
 
weekend what's the crazy one well busy i
 
 
weekend what's the crazy one well busy i
moved
 
 
moved
 
 
moved
and then as soon as i moved i had to
 
 
and then as soon as i moved i had to
 
 
and then as soon as i moved i had to
leave the next day go to miami on a
 
 
leave the next day go to miami on a
 
 
leave the next day go to miami on a
saturday so moved on friday went to
 
 
saturday so moved on friday went to
 
 
saturday so moved on friday went to
miami on a saturday
 
 
miami on a saturday
 
 
miami on a saturday
landed at almost midnight
 
 
landed at almost midnight
 
 
landed at almost midnight
worked all day
 
 
worked all day
 
 
worked all day
sunday in miami and then flew back and
 
 
sunday in miami and then flew back and
 
 
sunday in miami and then flew back and
then flew back sunday night
 
 
then flew back sunday night
 
 
then flew back sunday night
and then had a 7 30 a.m live hit
 
 
and then had a 7 30 a.m live hit
 
 
and then had a 7 30 a.m live hit
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
that i had to be ready for i'm tired
 
 
that i had to be ready for i'm tired
 
 
that i had to be ready for i'm tired
y'all praise jesus christ
 
 
y'all praise jesus christ
 
 
y'all praise jesus christ
but can i say that like this is one of
 
 
but can i say that like this is one of
 
 
but can i say that like this is one of
my most favorite parts of the day like i
 
 
my most favorite parts of the day like i
 
 
my most favorite parts of the day like i
look forward to coming on here and doing
 
 
look forward to coming on here and doing
 
 
look forward to coming on here and doing
this like this this
 
 
this like this this
 
 
this like this this
keeps me sane maybe not van in
 
 
keeps me sane maybe not van in
 
 
keeps me sane maybe not van in
particular but this this space keeps me
 
 
particular but this this space keeps me
 
 
particular but this this space keeps me
safe rach do me a favor
 
 
safe rach do me a favor
 
 
safe rach do me a favor
try
 
 
try
 
 
try
lazy
 
 
lazy
 
 
lazy
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
just try it
 
 
just try it
 
 
just try it
i got a mortgage now i got a mortgage
 
 
i got a mortgage now i got a mortgage
 
 
i got a mortgage now i got a mortgage
now you can't say no to anything i can't
 
 
now you can't say no to anything i can't
 
 
now you can't say no to anything i can't
say no to anything
 
 
say no to anything
 
 
say no to anything
it's very true
 
 
it's very true
 
 
it's very true
it's very true uh what did i do this
 
 
it's very true uh what did i do this
 
 
it's very true uh what did i do this
weekend um
 
 
weekend um
 
 
weekend um
oh
 
 
oh
 
 
oh
i i got back on my um super eating
 
 
i i got back on my um super eating
 
 
i i got back on my um super eating
healthy grind super ridiculously healthy
 
 
healthy grind super ridiculously healthy
 
 
healthy grind super ridiculously healthy
all right you know what do you cook or
 
 
all right you know what do you cook or
 
 
all right you know what do you cook or
do you do a meal plan i cook
 
 
do you do a meal plan i cook
 
 
do you do a meal plan i cook
brian has this great meal plan they
 
 
brian has this great meal plan they
 
 
brian has this great meal plan they
deliver it
 
 
deliver it
 
 
deliver it
like twice a week
 
 
like twice a week
 
 
like twice a week
and he like sticks to it three meals a
 
 
and he like sticks to it three meals a
 
 
and he like sticks to it three meals a
day
 
 
day
 
 
day
you should look you should hit him up
 
 
you should look you should hit him up
 
 
you should look you should hit him up
with that i want to be like brian
 
 
with that i want to be like brian
 
 
with that i want to be like brian
just trying to help you with your eating
 
 
just trying to help you with your eating
 
 
just trying to help you with your eating
not saying you got to be like brian
 
 
not saying you got to be like brian
 
 
not saying you got to be like brian
it's tough to cook all the time i don't
 
 
it's tough to cook all the time i don't
 
 
it's tough to cook all the time i don't
anybody got time for that i don't need
 
 
anybody got time for that i don't need
 
 
anybody got time for that i don't need
that as my
 
 
 
 
metric
 
 
metric
 
 
metric
i said the food service nah man you said
 
 
i said the food service nah man you said
 
 
i said the food service nah man you said
you said hey you have that little muscle
 
 
you said hey you have that little muscle
 
 
you said hey you have that little muscle
on the side of your waist i don't need
 
 
on the side of your waist i don't need
 
 
on the side of your waist i don't need
that that's my bedroom i don't want to
 
 
that that's my bedroom i don't want to
 
 
that that's my bedroom i don't want to
be like brian
 
 
be like brian
 
 
be like brian
you you know what what you tell brian to
 
 
you you know what what you tell brian to
 
 
you you know what what you tell brian to
be like me how about that you tell brian
 
 
be like me how about that you tell brian
 
 
be like me how about that you tell brian
you tell brian you tell you know what
 
 
you tell brian you tell you know what
 
 
you tell brian you tell you know what
i'm not
 
 
i'm not
 
 
i'm not
because it's just as impressive right me
 
 
because it's just as impressive right me
 
 
because it's just as impressive right me
getting like brian would be just as
 
 
getting like brian would be just as
 
 
getting like brian would be just as
impressed as
 
 
impressed as
 
 
impressed as
brian getting like me that's gonna be so
 
 
brian getting like me that's gonna be so
 
 
brian getting like me that's gonna be so
funny
 
 
funny
 
 
funny
that's gonna be so funny i'll tell him
 
 
that's gonna be so funny i'll tell him
 
 
that's gonna be so funny i'll tell him
i'll tell him tonight
 
 
i'll tell him tonight
 
 
i'll tell him tonight
me and brian just switched places i
 
 
me and brian just switched places i
 
 
me and brian just switched places i
wonder who could get there faster
 
 
wonder who could get there faster
 
 
wonder who could get there faster
i wonder if brian could get to like 280
 
 
i wonder if brian could get to like 280
 
 
i wonder if brian could get to like 280
great question or if i could get to
 
 
great question or if i could get to
 
 
great question or if i could get to
because i've been brian but brian's
 
 
because i've been brian but brian's
 
 
because i've been brian but brian's
never been me
 
 
never been me
 
 
never been me
see that's the difference
 
 
see that's the difference
 
 
see that's the difference
that's the difference so you might have
 
 
that's the difference so you might have
 
 
that's the difference so you might have
just answered it i haven't been that
 
 
just answered it i haven't been that
 
 
just answered it i haven't been that
lean
 
 
lean
 
 
lean
i've been lean as [ __ ] but you know it's
 
 
i've been lean as [ __ ] but you know it's
 
 
i've been lean as [ __ ] but you know it's
different it's different um
 
 
different it's different um
 
 
different it's different um
i just hung around i hung around i ate
 
 
i just hung around i hung around i ate
 
 
i just hung around i hung around i ate
right i lost from thursday to monday i
 
 
right i lost from thursday to monday i
 
 
right i lost from thursday to monday i
lost six pounds jeez good job yeah i'm
 
 
lost six pounds jeez good job yeah i'm
 
 
lost six pounds jeez good job yeah i'm
doing my thing i don't give a [ __ ]
 
 
doing my thing i don't give a [ __ ]
 
 
doing my thing i don't give a [ __ ]
anymore um
 
 
anymore um
 
 
anymore um
i can't tell him i i have a deal with
 
 
i can't tell him i i have a deal with
 
 
i can't tell him i i have a deal with
this clothing line actively black
 
 
this clothing line actively black
 
 
this clothing line actively black
everybody go look up actively black i'm
 
 
everybody go look up actively black i'm
 
 
everybody go look up actively black i'm
gonna start like come on keep
 
 
gonna start like come on keep
 
 
gonna start like come on keep
documenting documenting my uh my journey
 
 
documenting documenting my uh my journey
 
 
documenting documenting my uh my journey
yeah
 
 
yeah
 
 
yeah
so we're in oscar mode here right the
 
 
so we're in oscar mode here right the
 
 
so we're in oscar mode here right the
road to the oscars oscars is a sunday
 
 
road to the oscars oscars is a sunday
 
 
road to the oscars oscars is a sunday
right
 
 
right
 
 
right
can't believe it's been a year van it's
 
 
can't believe it's been a year van it's
 
 
can't believe it's been a year van it's
been a year i mean oscars was later last
 
 
been a year i mean oscars was later last
 
 
been a year i mean oscars was later last
year but it's been a year wow
 
 
year but it's been a year wow
 
 
year but it's been a year wow
wow y'all remember when he tried to be
 
 
wow y'all remember when he tried to be
 
 
wow y'all remember when he tried to be
like i don't really care if i win you
 
 
like i don't really care if i win you
 
 
like i don't really care if i win you
know
 
 
know
 
 
know
and then and then capture him crying
 
 
and then and then capture him crying
 
 
and then and then capture him crying
holding the
 
 
holding the
 
 
holding the
as you should have it's huge
 
 
as you should have it's huge
 
 
as you should have it's huge
anyways um so i'm watching movies
 
 
anyways um so i'm watching movies
 
 
anyways um so i'm watching movies
leading up to the oscars have you seen
 
 
leading up to the oscars have you seen
 
 
leading up to the oscars have you seen
all the best picture best
 
 
all the best picture best
 
 
all the best picture best
yes best um okay i have not
 
 
yes best um okay i have not
 
 
yes best um okay i have not
i watched coda jesus christ i can't even
 
 
i watched coda jesus christ i can't even
 
 
i watched coda jesus christ i can't even
talk about it without getting emotional
 
 
talk about it without getting emotional
 
 
talk about it without getting emotional
yeah
 
 
yeah
 
 
yeah
and if you guys have not seen coda
 
 
and if you guys have not seen coda
 
 
and if you guys have not seen coda
please go see it and i say and i say
 
 
please go see it and i say and i say
 
 
please go see it and i say and i say
emotion because it's just such a
 
 
emotion because it's just such a
 
 
emotion because it's just such a
beautiful movie about family and love
 
 
beautiful movie about family and love
 
 
beautiful movie about family and love
and sacrifice and growth and just
 
 
and sacrifice and growth and just
 
 
and sacrifice and growth and just
hope i just love it so much i was on the
 
 
hope i just love it so much i was on the
 
 
hope i just love it so much i was on the
plane and man i started off with just
 
 
plane and man i started off with just
 
 
plane and man i started off with just
the tears
 
 
the tears
 
 
the tears
and next thing i knew like my body
 
 
and next thing i knew like my body
 
 
and next thing i knew like my body
because i was trying to like hold it in
 
 
because i was trying to like hold it in
 
 
because i was trying to like hold it in
and i was like
 
 
 
 
are you okay
 
 
are you okay
 
 
are you okay
what about the part where she's singing
 
 
what about the part where she's singing
 
 
what about the part where she's singing
spoiler alert and her okay that's the
 
 
spoiler alert and her okay that's the
 
 
spoiler alert and her okay that's the
first time i cried
 
 
first time i cried
 
 
first time i cried
it's so
 
 
it's so
 
 
it's so
[ __ ] spoiler alert we're gonna talk
 
 
[ __ ] spoiler alert we're gonna talk
 
 
[ __ ] spoiler alert we're gonna talk
about spoiler
 
 
 
 
it's just so tough
 
 
it's just so tough
 
 
it's just so tough
like kalika
 
 
like kalika
 
 
like kalika
will sometimes watch
 
 
will sometimes watch
 
 
will sometimes watch
a sad movie
 
 
a sad movie
 
 
a sad movie
and it'll like ruin her like the day is
 
 
and it'll like ruin her like the day is
 
 
and it'll like ruin her like the day is
shocked
 
 
shocked
 
 
shocked
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
i need to talk to her about coda the day
 
 
i need to talk to her about coda the day
 
 
i need to talk to her about coda the day
is shot and like i come in
 
 
is shot and like i come in
 
 
is shot and like i come in
and like i come back from somewhere and
 
 
and like i come back from somewhere and
 
 
and like i come back from somewhere and
she's watching coda and she's into it
 
 
she's watching coda and she's into it
 
 
she's watching coda and she's into it
and i'm like [ __ ] it this is this
 
 
and i'm like [ __ ] it this is this
 
 
and i'm like [ __ ] it this is this
saturday's newt she's gonna be sad
 
 
saturday's newt she's gonna be sad
 
 
saturday's newt she's gonna be sad
whatever code the triggers is like it's
 
 
whatever code the triggers is like it's
 
 
whatever code the triggers is like it's
exactly then i have to watch it of
 
 
exactly then i have to watch it of
 
 
exactly then i have to watch it of
course because you know oscar time it's
 
 
course because you know oscar time it's
 
 
course because you know oscar time it's
a great movie great movie shout out to
 
 
a great movie great movie shout out to
 
 
a great movie great movie shout out to
marlee matlin who's had a girl oh gosh
 
 
marlee matlin who's had a girl oh gosh
 
 
marlee matlin who's had a girl oh gosh
there are three that the moment you're
 
 
there are three that the moment you're
 
 
there are three that the moment you're
talking about the concert the moment
 
 
talking about the concert the moment
 
 
talking about the concert the moment
where he's listening to her sing with
 
 
where he's listening to her sing with
 
 
where he's listening to her sing with
his hands uh-huh touching her because
 
 
his hands uh-huh touching her because
 
 
his hands uh-huh touching her because
yes yes and then when she during her
 
 
yes yes and then when she during her
 
 
yes yes and then when she during her
audition yeah stuff
 
 
 
 
that was sweet on the play
 
 
that was sweet on the play
 
 
that was sweet on the play
code is so good oh gosh y'all please it
 
 
code is so good oh gosh y'all please it
 
 
code is so good oh gosh y'all please it
has to win best picture it really does
 
 
has to win best picture it really does
 
 
has to win best picture it really does
it's just
 
 
it's just
 
 
it's just
i watch that and
 
 
i watch that and
 
 
i watch that and
the power to dog is right there too
 
 
the power to dog is right there too
 
 
the power to dog is right there too
okay
 
 
okay
 
 
okay
let's well we don't have it next time we
 
 
let's well we don't have it next time we
 
 
let's well we don't have it next time we
could talk on thursday we can talk about
 
 
could talk on thursday we can talk about
 
 
could talk on thursday we can talk about
a friday we can talk about what we think
 
 
a friday we can talk about what we think
 
 
a friday we can talk about what we think
what we think will win we can do that
 
 
what we think will win we can do that
 
 
what we think will win we can do that
because i don't have the list in front
 
 
because i don't have the list in front
 
 
because i don't have the list in front
of me right power dog is right there too
 
 
of me right power dog is right there too
 
 
of me right power dog is right there too
a lot of people are saying power to dog
 
 
a lot of people are saying power to dog
 
 
a lot of people are saying power to dog
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
but yeah can't wait for the acceptance
 
 
but yeah can't wait for the acceptance
 
 
but yeah can't wait for the acceptance
speech
 
 
speech
 
 
speech
yeah
 
 
yeah
 
 
yeah
the power of the dog champions up there
 
 
the power of the dog champions up there
 
 
the power of the dog champions up there
she's like
 
 
she's like
 
 
she's like
i know what it's like to work really
 
 
i know what it's like to work really
 
 
i know what it's like to work really
really hard
 
 
really hard
 
 
really hard
to win an academy award not like those
 
 
to win an academy award not like those
 
 
to win an academy award not like those
guys from moonlight
 
 
guys from moonlight
 
 
guys from moonlight
they basically won that's jane can't be
 
 
they basically won that's jane can't be
 
 
they basically won that's jane can't be
why wait
 
 
why wait
 
 
why wait
jane campion's cool she just had a white
 
 
jane campion's cool she just had a white
 
 
jane campion's cool she just had a white
woman moment that's that's that's what
 
 
woman moment that's that's that's what
 
 
woman moment that's that's that's what
you have to call it that's exactly what
 
 
you have to call it that's exactly what
 
 
you have to call it that's exactly what
it does share the white woman moment
 
 
it does share the white woman moment
 
 
it does share the white woman moment
white people have white moments what's
 
 
white people have white moments what's
 
 
white people have white moments what's
the biggest white moment you feel like
 
 
the biggest white moment you feel like
 
 
the biggest white moment you feel like
have you have you ever had like a oh oh
 
 
have you have you ever had like a oh oh
 
 
have you have you ever had like a oh oh
sorry
 
 
 
 
i wonder what kind of soup he's eating
 
 
i wonder what kind of soup he's eating
 
 
i wonder what kind of soup he's eating
right
 
 
 
 
i wonder what his favorite shut up
 
 
 
 
he's somewhere right now he can't afford
 
 
he's somewhere right now he can't afford
 
 
he's somewhere right now he can't afford
he's probably eaten well yes what's your
 
 
he's probably eaten well yes what's your
 
 
he's probably eaten well yes what's your
moment what's here
 
 
moment what's here
 
 
moment what's here
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
what's my oh i know a moment
 
 
what's my oh i know a moment
 
 
what's my oh i know a moment
well
 
 
well
 
 
well
i went to tmz so there were so many
 
 
i went to tmz so there were so many
 
 
i went to tmz so there were so many
moments
 
 
moments
 
 
moments
there were so many moments where people
 
 
there were so many moments where people
 
 
there were so many moments where people
oh but like the one moment i told you
 
 
oh but like the one moment i told you
 
 
oh but like the one moment i told you
guys about this the moment where
 
 
guys about this the moment where
 
 
guys about this the moment where
where uh
 
 
where uh
 
 
where uh
harvey put the poll on the website where
 
 
harvey put the poll on the website where
 
 
harvey put the poll on the website where
he asked
 
 
he asked
 
 
he asked
whether or not black people should be
 
 
whether or not black people should be
 
 
whether or not black people should be
called
 
 
called
 
 
called
african americans or [ __ ]
 
 
african americans or [ __ ]
 
 
african americans or [ __ ]
that was a real poll that went up on
 
 
that was a real poll that went up on
 
 
that was a real poll that went up on
tmz's website i'm going to you guys
 
 
tmz's website i'm going to you guys
 
 
tmz's website i'm going to you guys
listen
 
 
listen
 
 
listen
once again i'm going to tell the story
 
 
once again i'm going to tell the story
 
 
once again i'm going to tell the story
we got you a night out
 
 
we got you a night out
 
 
we got you a night out
they asked suge knight african-american
 
 
they asked suge knight african-american
 
 
they asked suge knight african-american
and [ __ ] i don't know why it was
 
 
and [ __ ] i don't know why it was
 
 
and [ __ ] i don't know why it was
because of that guy ab sandler's friend
 
 
because of that guy ab sandler's friend
 
 
because of that guy ab sandler's friend
had said it and then he had said suge
 
 
had said it and then he had said suge
 
 
had said it and then he had said suge
knight let him say it he's like to me
 
 
knight let him say it he's like to me
 
 
knight let him say it he's like to me
[ __ ] is more of a thing than
 
 
[ __ ] is more of a thing than
 
 
[ __ ] is more of a thing than
african-american harvey then took it and
 
 
african-american harvey then took it and
 
 
african-american harvey then took it and
put it on the site should black people
 
 
put it on the site should black people
 
 
put it on the site should black people
be called african-americans or [ __ ] i
 
 
be called african-americans or [ __ ] i
 
 
be called african-americans or [ __ ] i
remember i got a call i'm like yo
 
 
remember i got a call i'm like yo
 
 
remember i got a call i'm like yo
[ __ ] was like what the [ __ ] man what's
 
 
[ __ ] was like what the [ __ ] man what's
 
 
[ __ ] was like what the [ __ ] man what's
going on up there i was on work i didn't
 
 
going on up there i was on work i didn't
 
 
going on up there i was on work i didn't
even see it
 
 
even see it
 
 
even see it
oh so they did it on your day off well
 
 
oh so they did it on your day off well
 
 
oh so they did it on your day off well
it's not like they did it on my day off
 
 
it's not like they did it on my day off
 
 
it's not like they did it on my day off
it's not like they were but like i was
 
 
it's not like they were but like i was
 
 
it's not like they were but like i was
off
 
 
off
 
 
off
you know what i mean and i wasn't in the
 
 
you know what i mean and i wasn't in the
 
 
you know what i mean and i wasn't in the
newsroom at that time so by the time i
 
 
newsroom at that time so by the time i
 
 
newsroom at that time so by the time i
saw it it was on the site and i came
 
 
saw it it was on the site and i came
 
 
saw it it was on the site and i came
back in i'm like guys obviously this is
 
 
back in i'm like guys obviously this is
 
 
back in i'm like guys obviously this is
a [ __ ] no-no what the [ __ ]
 
 
 
 
crazy that's definitely your moments
 
 
crazy that's definitely your moments
 
 
crazy that's definitely your moments
did they did they take it down after
 
 
did they did they take it down after
 
 
did they did they take it down after
no
 
 
no
 
 
no
right it lift it lived on the side it
 
 
right it lift it lived on the side it
 
 
right it lift it lived on the side it
might still be up so what they would do
 
 
might still be up so what they would do
 
 
might still be up so what they would do
what was the percentage
 
 
what was the percentage
 
 
what was the percentage
i gotta go
 
 
i gotta go
 
 
i gotta go
what's the percentage man oh my gosh it
 
 
what's the percentage man oh my gosh it
 
 
what's the percentage man oh my gosh it
might still be up no it's not no it's
 
 
might still be up no it's not no it's
 
 
might still be up no it's not no it's
not it can't it might still be well
 
 
not it can't it might still be well
 
 
not it can't it might still be well
i don't know if it's if it's like hold
 
 
i don't know if it's if it's like hold
 
 
i don't know if it's if it's like hold
on let me see africa it just can't
 
 
on let me see africa it just can't
 
 
on let me see africa it just can't
tmz african-american or [ __ ] hold on
 
 
tmz african-american or [ __ ] hold on
 
 
tmz african-american or [ __ ] hold on
for a
 
 
for a
 
 
for a
african
 
 
african
 
 
african
americans
 
 
americans
 
 
americans
or
 
 
or
 
 
or
[ __ ] let's see what comes up it just
 
 
[ __ ] let's see what comes up it just
 
 
[ __ ] let's see what comes up it just
came
 
 
came
 
 
came
poll tmz
 
 
poll tmz
 
 
poll tmz
should black people be called [ __ ] are
 
 
should black people be called [ __ ] are
 
 
should black people be called [ __ ] are
african-americans
 
 
african-americans
 
 
african-americans
newsone.com tmz suge night
 
 
newsone.com tmz suge night
 
 
newsone.com tmz suge night
is flight inspired pole this is december
 
 
is flight inspired pole this is december
 
 
is flight inspired pole this is december
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there for like a year and a half tmz
 
 
there for like a year and a half tmz
 
 
there for like a year and a half tmz
asked if black people should be called
 
 
asked if black people should be called
 
 
asked if black people should be called
word african american think about how
 
 
word african american think about how
 
 
word african american think about how
wild this is
 
 
wild this is
 
 
wild this is
what the [ __ ]
 
 
what the [ __ ]
 
 
what the [ __ ]
uh see the poll results below you like
 
 
uh see the poll results below you like
 
 
uh see the poll results below you like
oh
 
 
oh
 
 
oh
so the video they put in on private the
 
 
so the video they put in on private the
 
 
so the video they put in on private the
poll the post has about 370 comments and
 
 
poll the post has about 370 comments and
 
 
poll the post has about 370 comments and
most of them are as racist and ignorant
 
 
most of them are as racist and ignorant
 
 
most of them are as racist and ignorant
as one would expect so i you can't see
 
 
as one would expect so i you can't see
 
 
as one would expect so i you can't see
it anymore because i guess it's not on
 
 
it anymore because i guess it's not on
 
 
it anymore because i guess it's not on
the site anymore but it lives on because
 
 
the site anymore but it lives on because
 
 
the site anymore but it lives on because
obviously
 
 
obviously
 
 
obviously
it uh
 
 
it uh
 
 
it uh
it got covered it got covered tmz damn
 
 
it got covered it got covered tmz damn
 
 
it got covered it got covered tmz damn
nuts oh here it is no no wait
 
 
nuts oh here it is no no wait
 
 
nuts oh here it is no no wait
wait
 
 
wait
 
 
wait
oh
 
 
oh
 
 
oh
oh no they took the pole out
 
 
 
 
they took the pole out but it's still
 
 
they took the pole out but it's still
 
 
they took the pole out but it's still
probably because of what was winning
 
 
probably because of what was winning
 
 
probably because of what was winning
suge knight is offended when people call
 
 
suge knight is offended when people call
 
 
suge knight is offended when people call
him african-american because he's not
 
 
him african-american because he's not
 
 
him african-american because he's not
african on the other hand he doesn't
 
 
african on the other hand he doesn't
 
 
african on the other hand he doesn't
have a problem with the word [ __ ]
 
 
have a problem with the word [ __ ]
 
 
have a problem with the word [ __ ]
shook says his offensive little offenses
 
 
shook says his offensive little offenses
 
 
shook says his offensive little offenses
to label all black people
 
 
to label all black people
 
 
to label all black people
african-american blah blah blah who
 
 
african-american blah blah blah who
 
 
african-american blah blah blah who
gives a [ __ ] at first his theory sounds
 
 
gives a [ __ ] at first his theory sounds
 
 
gives a [ __ ] at first his theory sounds
a little shopping but maybe he has a
 
 
a little shopping but maybe he has a
 
 
a little shopping but maybe he has a
point
 
 
point
 
 
point
but maybe he has a point i can't wait
 
 
but maybe he has a point i can't wait
 
 
but maybe he has a point i can't wait
till my book comes out i'm sorry you
 
 
till my book comes out i'm sorry you
 
 
till my book comes out i'm sorry you
guys got to read teams each other so is
 
 
guys got to read teams each other so is
 
 
guys got to read teams each other so is
this is this oh oh wait there's a tmz
 
 
this is this oh oh wait there's a tmz
 
 
this is this oh oh wait there's a tmz
chapter do you think you're going to
 
 
chapter do you think you're going to
 
 
chapter do you think you're going to
make people upset no
 
 
 
 
because i was very democratic did legal
 
 
because i was very democratic did legal
 
 
because i was very democratic did legal
have to check with tmz
 
 
have to check with tmz
 
 
have to check with tmz
they had to they had to they had to
 
 
they had to they had to they had to
 
 
they had to they had to they had to
check legal had checked with the
 
 
check legal had checked with the
 
 
check legal had checked with the
bachelor you didn't have to you didn't
 
 
bachelor you didn't have to you didn't
 
 
bachelor you didn't have to you didn't
have to talk to an attorney about
 
 
have to talk to an attorney about
 
 
have to talk to an attorney about
certain things in your book i did
 
 
certain things in your book i did
 
 
certain things in your book i did
right maybe we'll be sued but they'll
 
 
right maybe we'll be sued but they'll
 
 
right maybe we'll be sued but they'll
have to do the [ __ ] not me
 
 
have to do the [ __ ] not me
 
 
have to do the [ __ ] not me
maybe maybe we'll be sued but like this
 
 
maybe maybe we'll be sued but like this
 
 
maybe maybe we'll be sued but like this
is uh it's just
 
 
is uh it's just
 
 
is uh it's just
but even that though
 
 
but even that though
 
 
but even that though
think about this
 
 
think about this
 
 
think about this
and this is uncle tom's stepping
 
 
and this is uncle tom's stepping
 
 
and this is uncle tom's stepping
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
even that though i took that up it's all
 
 
even that though i took that up it's all
 
 
even that though i took that up it's all
they white they don't you know they just
 
 
they white they don't you know they just
 
 
they white they don't you know they just
need somebody i would something like
 
 
need somebody i would something like
 
 
need somebody i would something like
that happen here's the thing something
 
 
that happen here's the thing something
 
 
that happen here's the thing something
like that would happen and i would think
 
 
like that would happen and i would think
 
 
like that would happen and i would think
this is the more reason that i should
 
 
this is the more reason that i should
 
 
this is the more reason that i should
stick around
 
 
stick around
 
 
stick around
i get i i totally understand that you
 
 
i get i i totally understand that you
 
 
i get i i totally understand that you
think if i leave first of all you think
 
 
think if i leave first of all you think
 
 
think if i leave first of all you think
what was happening before i got there
 
 
what was happening before i got there
 
 
what was happening before i got there
and if i leave what will happen i get
 
 
and if i leave what will happen i get
 
 
and if i leave what will happen i get
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
right
 
 
right
 
 
right
this is the more reason i should stick
 
 
this is the more reason i should stick
 
 
this is the more reason i should stick
around and nina had been there before me
 
 
around and nina had been there before me
 
 
around and nina had been there before me
and nina left literally within this
 
 
and nina left literally within this
 
 
and nina left literally within this
first six months i was at team oh i
 
 
first six months i was at team oh i
 
 
first six months i was at team oh i
didn't realize it was that soon yeah
 
 
didn't realize it was that soon yeah
 
 
didn't realize it was that soon yeah
like i didn't work with nina for maybe
 
 
like i didn't work with nina for maybe
 
 
like i didn't work with nina for maybe
about half a year not even a year and i
 
 
about half a year not even a year and i
 
 
about half a year not even a year and i
remember when nina left i was like oh
 
 
remember when nina left i was like oh
 
 
remember when nina left i was like oh
[ __ ] but i was like
 
 
[ __ ] but i was like
 
 
[ __ ] but i was like
why would she leave
 
 
why would she leave
 
 
why would she leave
i was like why would she leave and think
 
 
i was like why would she leave and think
 
 
i was like why would she leave and think
about it the amazing glorious great nina
 
 
about it the amazing glorious great nina
 
 
about it the amazing glorious great nina
parker a mogul she's just great she's
 
 
parker a mogul she's just great she's
 
 
parker a mogul she's just great she's
great nina parker a mogul right
 
 
great nina parker a mogul right
 
 
great nina parker a mogul right
it's been 11 years or something like
 
 
it's been 11 years or something like
 
 
it's been 11 years or something like
that 10 years almost maybe more since
 
 
that 10 years almost maybe more since
 
 
that 10 years almost maybe more since
she left tmz she's been she's got her
 
 
she left tmz she's been she's got her
 
 
she left tmz she's been she's got her
glow up doing her the whole thing since
 
 
glow up doing her the whole thing since
 
 
glow up doing her the whole thing since
she left
 
 
she left
 
 
she left
it's tough it's a tough situation
 
 
it's tough it's a tough situation
 
 
it's tough it's a tough situation
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
but that was the biggest i guess
 
 
but that was the biggest i guess
 
 
but that was the biggest i guess
white woman like white did they replace
 
 
white woman like white did they replace
 
 
white woman like white did they replace
you with another black person
 
 
you with another black person
 
 
you with another black person
not really
 
 
not really
 
 
not really
but like they uh they like um
 
 
but like they uh they like um
 
 
but like they uh they like um
there was people already there
 
 
there was people already there
 
 
there was people already there
you know that were coming up
 
 
you know that were coming up
 
 
you know that were coming up
because i used to say that i was used to
 
 
because i used to say that i was used to
 
 
because i used to say that i was used to
be like y'all want me to stop talking
 
 
be like y'all want me to stop talking
 
 
be like y'all want me to stop talking
about stuff just bring in another black
 
 
about stuff just bring in another black
 
 
about stuff just bring in another black
person
 
 
person
 
 
person
another [ __ ] and like that's literally
 
 
another [ __ ] and like that's literally
 
 
another [ __ ] and like that's literally
like they don't need me they have they
 
 
like they don't need me they have they
 
 
like they don't need me they have they
have another black person in there i
 
 
have another black person in there i
 
 
have another black person in there i
mean i don't want to be there but who is
 
 
mean i don't want to be there but who is
 
 
mean i don't want to be there but who is
the black person that they brought in
 
 
the black person that they brought in
 
 
the black person that they brought in
tasha
 
 
tasha
 
 
tasha
uh michelle
 
 
uh michelle
 
 
uh michelle
michelle's like michelle
 
 
michelle's like michelle
 
 
michelle's like michelle
uh you know i left that podcast now
 
 
uh you know i left that podcast now
 
 
uh you know i left that podcast now
michelle's the new host of the podcast
 
 
michelle's the new host of the podcast
 
 
michelle's the new host of the podcast
like yeah yeah yeah yeah oh i love
 
 
like yeah yeah yeah yeah oh i love
 
 
like yeah yeah yeah yeah oh i love
michelle oh
 
 
michelle oh
 
 
michelle oh
we want people to win we want people oh
 
 
we want people to win we want people oh
 
 
we want people to win we want people oh
oh my gosh i love michelle like i really
 
 
oh my gosh i love michelle like i really
 
 
oh my gosh i love michelle like i really
really do the show's great y'all like
 
 
really do the show's great y'all like
 
 
really do the show's great y'all like
tasha though that's not true you don't
 
 
tasha though that's not true you don't
 
 
tasha though that's not true you don't
like her we all know it to be true
 
 
like her we all know it to be true
 
 
like her we all know it to be true
you know
 
 
you know
 
 
you know
potatoes not black
 
 
potatoes not black
 
 
potatoes not black
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
they could never record you know
 
 
they could never record you know
 
 
they could never record you know
she's uh did she tell you that
 
 
she's uh did she tell you that
 
 
she's uh did she tell you that
that's what was implied
 
 
 
 
very controversial interview
 
 
very controversial interview
 
 
very controversial interview
i could have gone a lot harder that
 
 
i could have gone a lot harder that
 
 
i could have gone a lot harder that
actually was a very controversial
 
 
actually was a very controversial
 
 
actually was a very controversial
interview and people
 
 
interview and people
 
 
interview and people
people were upset with some of the
 
 
people were upset with some of the
 
 
people were upset with some of the
questions we asked which i thought we
 
 
questions we asked which i thought we
 
 
questions we asked which i thought we
were extremely
 
 
were extremely
 
 
were extremely
nice extremely nice this is what i'll
 
 
nice extremely nice this is what i'll
 
 
nice extremely nice this is what i'll
say before we move on to another
 
 
say before we move on to another
 
 
say before we move on to another
incredibly controversial uh
 
 
incredibly controversial uh
 
 
incredibly controversial uh
topic
 
 
topic
 
 
topic
i want people to understand about that
 
 
i want people to understand about that
 
 
i want people to understand about that
interview let's let's do it we know we
 
 
interview let's let's do it we know we
 
 
interview let's let's do it we know we
should do we should have a segment i
 
 
should do we should have a segment i
 
 
should do we should have a segment i
haven't suggested a new segment in a
 
 
haven't suggested a new segment in a
 
 
haven't suggested a new segment in a
long time i already know what you're
 
 
long time i already know what you're
 
 
long time i already know what you're
going to say
 
 
going to say
 
 
going to say
what's the what what segment do you
 
 
what's the what what segment do you
 
 
what's the what what segment do you
think we should i should we should do
 
 
think we should i should we should do
 
 
think we should i should we should do
you're going to say where we go back
 
 
you're going to say where we go back
 
 
you're going to say where we go back
and redo and redo interviews we do
 
 
and redo and redo interviews we do
 
 
and redo and redo interviews we do
redo interviews like a higher learning
 
 
redo interviews like a higher learning
 
 
redo interviews like a higher learning
rewind where we go back and look at
 
 
rewind where we go back and look at
 
 
rewind where we go back and look at
something that we already covered
 
 
something that we already covered
 
 
something that we already covered
and pick apart i like it yeah and see if
 
 
and pick apart i like it yeah and see if
 
 
and pick apart i like it yeah and see if
we'd have covered it the same way
 
 
we'd have covered it the same way
 
 
we'd have covered it the same way
if and just go back and look at some of
 
 
if and just go back and look at some of
 
 
if and just go back and look at some of
the moments like watershed moments in
 
 
the moments like watershed moments in
 
 
the moments like watershed moments in
the pockets a higher learning rewind
 
 
the pockets a higher learning rewind
 
 
the pockets a higher learning rewind
i like it i and and listen thought
 
 
i like it i and and listen thought
 
 
i like it i and and listen thought
warriors put out what some of your
 
 
warriors put out what some of your
 
 
warriors put out what some of your
favorite interviews are
 
 
favorite interviews are
 
 
favorite interviews are
and we'll and we'll
 
 
and we'll and we'll
 
 
and we'll and we'll
other than michael rappaport right
 
 
other than michael rappaport right
 
 
other than michael rappaport right
but no i think that you would do some
 
 
but no i think that you would do some
 
 
but no i think that you would do some
things differently maybe in that
 
 
things differently maybe in that
 
 
things differently maybe in that
interview right so that would actually
 
 
interview right so that would actually
 
 
interview right so that would actually
be a good one so if i was just thinking
 
 
be a good one so if i was just thinking
 
 
be a good one so if i was just thinking
about it right now is and i got to say
 
 
about it right now is and i got to say
 
 
about it right now is and i got to say
this where i'm from
 
 
this where i'm from
 
 
this where i'm from
black people are not trusting
 
 
black people are not trusting
 
 
black people are not trusting
of black people who other themselves
 
 
of black people who other themselves
 
 
of black people who other themselves
i'll just be honest with you okay if we
 
 
i'll just be honest with you okay if we
 
 
i'll just be honest with you okay if we
all sitting in a bullpen not a bullpen
 
 
all sitting in a bullpen not a bullpen
 
 
all sitting in a bullpen not a bullpen
because i don't want to say that we all
 
 
because i don't want to say that we all
 
 
because i don't want to say that we all
go to jail we all sitting down on the
 
 
go to jail we all sitting down on the
 
 
go to jail we all sitting down on the
bench we all sit down somewhere
 
 
bench we all sit down somewhere
 
 
bench we all sit down somewhere
and you look like you look i look like i
 
 
and you look like you look i look like i
 
 
and you look like you look i look like i
look taisha looks citation looks we all
 
 
look taisha looks citation looks we all
 
 
look taisha looks citation looks we all
look around and we all accept that we're
 
 
look around and we all accept that we're
 
 
look around and we all accept that we're
all black and then for some reason you
 
 
all black and then for some reason you
 
 
all black and then for some reason you
go wait a minute i'm not black i'm this
 
 
go wait a minute i'm not black i'm this
 
 
go wait a minute i'm not black i'm this
we
 
 
we
 
 
we
right away or
 
 
right away or
 
 
right away or
inherently distrustful of like
 
 
inherently distrustful of like
 
 
inherently distrustful of like
why i don't want to be a [ __ ]
 
 
why i don't want to be a [ __ ]
 
 
why i don't want to be a [ __ ]
yeah like like like
 
 
yeah like like like
 
 
yeah like like like
excuse me not a [ __ ] i'm sorry why
 
 
excuse me not a [ __ ] i'm sorry why
 
 
excuse me not a [ __ ] i'm sorry why
don't you want to be a black person like
 
 
don't you want to be a black person like
 
 
don't you want to be a black person like
why you all want to be one of like what
 
 
why you all want to be one of like what
 
 
why you all want to be one of like what
is it what is it like what do you do
 
 
is it what is it like what do you do
 
 
is it what is it like what do you do
are you looking to be as less black as
 
 
are you looking to be as less black as
 
 
are you looking to be as less black as
you can do you feel like that's going to
 
 
you can do you feel like that's going to
 
 
you can do you feel like that's going to
get you something
 
 
get you something
 
 
get you something
and you know it's not fair to people
 
 
and you know it's not fair to people
 
 
and you know it's not fair to people
lactation but it's just a kind of a
 
 
lactation but it's just a kind of a
 
 
lactation but it's just a kind of a
thing maybe you need to do better who
 
 
thing maybe you need to do better who
 
 
thing maybe you need to do better who
knows
 
 
knows
 
 
knows
no it's a it's a real
 
 
no it's a it's a real
 
 
no it's a it's a real
question and we should ask we should ask
 
 
question and we should ask we should ask
 
 
question and we should ask we should ask
come back come back after have
 
 
come back come back after have
 
 
come back come back after have
conversation
 
 
conversation
 
 
conversation
come back
 
 
come back
 
 
come back
tasha come back
 
 
tasha come back
 
 
tasha come back
taste your taste come back taste your
 
 
taste your taste come back taste your
 
 
taste your taste come back taste your
finish delivering the soup
 
 
finish delivering the soup
 
 
finish delivering the soup
to to
 
 
to to
 
 
to to
soup kitchen because i'm sure he has a
 
 
soup kitchen because i'm sure he has a
 
 
soup kitchen because i'm sure he has a
different could you imagine if like a
 
 
different could you imagine if like a
 
 
different could you imagine if like a
different bachelor contestant every day
 
 
different bachelor contestant every day
 
 
different bachelor contestant every day
delivered him the soup
 
 
delivered him the soup
 
 
delivered him the soup
just stop get off it but you know what
 
 
just stop get off it but you know what
 
 
just stop get off it but you know what
if we have her back maybe we should have
 
 
if we have her back maybe we should have
 
 
if we have her back maybe we should have
um camille on as well yeah we should
 
 
um camille on as well yeah we should
 
 
um camille on as well yeah we should
have camilo camilla we should have them
 
 
have camilo camilla we should have them
 
 
have camilo camilla we should have them
both we should have them both on we
 
 
both we should have them both on we
 
 
both we should have them both on we
should have a because then she's got
 
 
should have a because then she's got
 
 
should have a because then she's got
somebody like more
 
 
somebody like more
 
 
somebody like more
it would be like us and them you know
 
 
it would be like us and them you know
 
 
it would be like us and them you know
what's funny this is a [ __ ] fantastic
 
 
what's funny this is a [ __ ] fantastic
 
 
what's funny this is a [ __ ] fantastic
idea
 
 
idea
 
 
idea
like i don't she would never do this but
 
 
like i don't she would never do this but
 
 
like i don't she would never do this but
this is this is a this is a fantastic
 
 
this is this is a this is a fantastic
 
 
this is this is a this is a fantastic
idea that we should we should litigate
 
 
idea that we should we should litigate
 
 
idea that we should we should litigate
the camille the camille being black
 
 
the camille the camille being black
 
 
the camille the camille being black
thing we should have a background i know
 
 
thing we should have a background i know
 
 
thing we should have a background i know
the higher learning audience they're
 
 
the higher learning audience they're
 
 
the higher learning audience they're
going to ask for d1 to come back on
 
 
going to ask for d1 to come back on
 
 
going to ask for d1 to come back on
they're going to want us to they take
 
 
they're going to want us to they take
 
 
they're going to want us to they take
sort of a different tone right there
 
 
sort of a different tone right there
 
 
sort of a different tone right there
okay uh
 
 
 
 
on the other side of this break the big
 
 
on the other side of this break the big
 
 
on the other side of this break the big
deal
 
 
deal
 
 
deal
okay leah thomas
 
 
okay leah thomas
 
 
okay leah thomas
has become the first transgender
 
 
has become the first transgender
 
 
has become the first transgender
woman to win an ncaa championship
 
 
woman to win an ncaa championship
 
 
woman to win an ncaa championship
i'm sure you guys heard about this
 
 
i'm sure you guys heard about this
 
 
i'm sure you guys heard about this
uh she absolutely dominated she took
 
 
uh she absolutely dominated she took
 
 
uh she absolutely dominated she took
control of the final 100 yards 500 yard
 
 
control of the final 100 yards 500 yard
 
 
control of the final 100 yards 500 yard
freestyle to make history thursday as
 
 
freestyle to make history thursday as
 
 
freestyle to make history thursday as
the first transgender woman to win an
 
 
the first transgender woman to win an
 
 
the first transgender woman to win an
ncaa swimming championship okay
 
 
ncaa swimming championship okay
 
 
ncaa swimming championship okay
uh leah thomas started
 
 
uh leah thomas started
 
 
uh leah thomas started
her
 
 
her
 
 
her
career at penn
 
 
career at penn
 
 
career at penn
as a male swimmer
 
 
as a male swimmer
 
 
as a male swimmer
or should i say
 
 
or should i say
 
 
or should i say
she had not
 
 
she had not
 
 
she had not
transitioned yet to being a woman
 
 
transitioned yet to being a woman
 
 
transitioned yet to being a woman
right okay
 
 
right okay
 
 
right okay
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
she transitioned
 
 
she transitioned
 
 
she transitioned
uh i think it was
 
 
uh i think it was
 
 
uh i think it was
maybe
 
 
maybe
 
 
maybe
like a year or a half ago she was still
 
 
like a year or a half ago she was still
 
 
like a year or a half ago she was still
identifying she was still a member of
 
 
identifying she was still a member of
 
 
identifying she was still a member of
the men's swim team
 
 
the men's swim team
 
 
the men's swim team
and she was or in the 400s in terms of
 
 
and she was or in the 400s in terms of
 
 
and she was or in the 400s in terms of
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
where she was in terms of being in the
 
 
where she was in terms of being in the
 
 
where she was in terms of being in the
ncaa swimmer that's where she was ranked
 
 
ncaa swimmer that's where she was ranked
 
 
ncaa swimmer that's where she was ranked
now
 
 
now
 
 
now
she's the best she's the best because
 
 
she's the best she's the best because
 
 
she's the best she's the best because
she reclassified she joined the women's
 
 
she reclassified she joined the women's
 
 
she reclassified she joined the women's
swim team at penn after she uh came out
 
 
swim team at penn after she uh came out
 
 
swim team at penn after she uh came out
and she has been taking hormone therapy
 
 
and she has been taking hormone therapy
 
 
and she has been taking hormone therapy
i think for around a year a year and a
 
 
i think for around a year a year and a
 
 
i think for around a year a year and a
half uh she's met the ncaa requirements
 
 
half uh she's met the ncaa requirements
 
 
half uh she's met the ncaa requirements
for her to be able to swim
 
 
for her to be able to swim
 
 
for her to be able to swim
now
 
 
now
 
 
now
a lot of people
 
 
a lot of people
 
 
a lot of people
are looking at this and saying
 
 
are looking at this and saying
 
 
are looking at this and saying
that this is absolutely unfair
 
 
that this is absolutely unfair
 
 
that this is absolutely unfair
that leah thomas
 
 
that leah thomas
 
 
that leah thomas
has had
 
 
has had
 
 
has had
a biological
 
 
a biological
 
 
a biological
and physical advantage over the rest of
 
 
and physical advantage over the rest of
 
 
and physical advantage over the rest of
these women and this should not have
 
 
these women and this should not have
 
 
these women and this should not have
happened i'm sure you're opening this
 
 
happened i'm sure you're opening this
 
 
happened i'm sure you're opening this
story rachel what do you think
 
 
 
 
it's hard isn't it
 
 
it's hard isn't it
 
 
it's hard isn't it
it's tough
 
 
it's tough
 
 
it's tough
it's tough because
 
 
it's tough because
 
 
it's tough because
my my initial reaction before i knew
 
 
my my initial reaction before i knew
 
 
my my initial reaction before i knew
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
when leo was competing on the men's team
 
 
when leo was competing on the men's team
 
 
when leo was competing on the men's team
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
she was ranked
 
 
she was ranked
 
 
she was ranked
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all those numbers but
 
 
all those numbers but
 
 
all those numbers but
not top 10
 
 
not top 10
 
 
not top 10
not top 100
 
 
not top 100
 
 
not top 100
um and then i learned later that when
 
 
um and then i learned later that when
 
 
um and then i learned later that when
she um
 
 
she um
 
 
she um
transitioned
 
 
transitioned
 
 
transitioned
she was at the top
 
 
she was at the top
 
 
she was at the top
um but i didn't know that at first so
 
 
um but i didn't know that at first so
 
 
um but i didn't know that at first so
officially originally when i heard it i
 
 
officially originally when i heard it i
 
 
officially originally when i heard it i
thought okay like
 
 
thought okay like
 
 
thought okay like
if if she's competing within the ncaa
 
 
if if she's competing within the ncaa
 
 
if if she's competing within the ncaa
rules
 
 
rules
 
 
rules
then what's the big deal
 
 
then what's the big deal
 
 
then what's the big deal
right like
 
 
right like
 
 
right like
she's a woman she's competing on the
 
 
she's a woman she's competing on the
 
 
she's a woman she's competing on the
woman's team that seems fair to me then
 
 
woman's team that seems fair to me then
 
 
woman's team that seems fair to me then
i learned about the ranking then i
 
 
i learned about the ranking then i
 
 
i learned about the ranking then i
learned about the difference
 
 
learned about the difference
 
 
learned about the difference
then i started listening to other
 
 
then i started listening to other
 
 
then i started listening to other
athletes who are in competition with
 
 
athletes who are in competition with
 
 
athletes who are in competition with
leah speak out
 
 
leah speak out
 
 
leah speak out
then i heard from other female athletes
 
 
then i heard from other female athletes
 
 
then i heard from other female athletes
even outside of the sport and so i'm in
 
 
even outside of the sport and so i'm in
 
 
even outside of the sport and so i'm in
this place and the reason i hesitate is
 
 
this place and the reason i hesitate is
 
 
this place and the reason i hesitate is
because i am not a part of the community
 
 
because i am not a part of the community
 
 
because i am not a part of the community
the lgbtq plus community and i'm not a
 
 
the lgbtq plus community and i'm not a
 
 
the lgbtq plus community and i'm not a
collegiate athlete never was one
 
 
collegiate athlete never was one
 
 
collegiate athlete never was one
so i'm not i'm not directly impacted by
 
 
so i'm not i'm not directly impacted by
 
 
so i'm not i'm not directly impacted by
it so it's hard to have an opinion when
 
 
it so it's hard to have an opinion when
 
 
it so it's hard to have an opinion when
i don't feel like
 
 
i don't feel like
 
 
i don't feel like
i can really speak on it
 
 
i can really speak on it
 
 
i can really speak on it
but i have to say if i'm just looking at
 
 
but i have to say if i'm just looking at
 
 
but i have to say if i'm just looking at
it it doesn't seem fair
 
 
it it doesn't seem fair
 
 
it it doesn't seem fair
and and and i and it's not that it
 
 
and and and i and it's not that it
 
 
and and and i and it's not that it
doesn't seem fair because of what her
 
 
doesn't seem fair because of what her
 
 
doesn't seem fair because of what her
ranking was when she was on the men's
 
 
ranking was when she was on the men's
 
 
ranking was when she was on the men's
team versus now it doesn't seem fair
 
 
team versus now it doesn't seem fair
 
 
team versus now it doesn't seem fair
because there doesn't seem to be a rule
 
 
because there doesn't seem to be a rule
 
 
because there doesn't seem to be a rule
that can apply to make it fair for
 
 
that can apply to make it fair for
 
 
that can apply to make it fair for
everyone who's competing in this sport
 
 
everyone who's competing in this sport
 
 
everyone who's competing in this sport
that's why i that's more so i don't see
 
 
that's why i that's more so i don't see
 
 
that's why i that's more so i don't see
the ncaa coming up with a rule that
 
 
the ncaa coming up with a rule that
 
 
the ncaa coming up with a rule that
makes everyone who's competing feel
 
 
makes everyone who's competing feel
 
 
makes everyone who's competing feel
comfortable
 
 
comfortable
 
 
comfortable
and i and that's where i what i struggle
 
 
and i and that's where i what i struggle
 
 
and i and that's where i what i struggle
with you can't have a blanket rule and
 
 
with you can't have a blanket rule and
 
 
with you can't have a blanket rule and
you can't observe people on a
 
 
you can't observe people on a
 
 
you can't observe people on a
case-by-case basis that doesn't seem
 
 
case-by-case basis that doesn't seem
 
 
case-by-case basis that doesn't seem
fair either treating each person like
 
 
fair either treating each person like
 
 
fair either treating each person like
they're an experiment and i gotta you
 
 
they're an experiment and i gotta you
 
 
they're an experiment and i gotta you
know i gotta monitor you and you gotta
 
 
know i gotta monitor you and you gotta
 
 
know i gotta monitor you and you gotta
be testing all the time and doing this
 
 
be testing all the time and doing this
 
 
be testing all the time and doing this
that doesn't seem fair either to the to
 
 
that doesn't seem fair either to the to
 
 
that doesn't seem fair either to the to
the trans man or trans woman
 
 
the trans man or trans woman
 
 
the trans man or trans woman
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
i i i'm not gonna say as far as saying
 
 
i i i'm not gonna say as far as saying
 
 
i i i'm not gonna say as far as saying
that you know like they should not be
 
 
that you know like they should not be
 
 
that you know like they should not be
able to compete in sports i would never
 
 
able to compete in sports i would never
 
 
able to compete in sports i would never
say that but when it comes to this case
 
 
say that but when it comes to this case
 
 
say that but when it comes to this case
specifically
 
 
specifically
 
 
specifically
it doesn't seem like the rules match
 
 
it doesn't seem like the rules match
 
 
it doesn't seem like the rules match
what's happening with leah thomas
 
 
what's happening with leah thomas
 
 
what's happening with leah thomas
and and specifically when you pull out
 
 
and and specifically when you pull out
 
 
and and specifically when you pull out
things like the um other athletes who
 
 
things like the um other athletes who
 
 
things like the um other athletes who
were knocked out and did not make the
 
 
were knocked out and did not make the
 
 
were knocked out and did not make the
team did not make the finals did not
 
 
team did not make the finals did not
 
 
team did not make the finals did not
make the big cut because leah did it
 
 
make the big cut because leah did it
 
 
make the big cut because leah did it
does seem as if there is a certain
 
 
does seem as if there is a certain
 
 
does seem as if there is a certain
unfair advantage and it just doesn't
 
 
unfair advantage and it just doesn't
 
 
unfair advantage and it just doesn't
seem like the science has caught up with
 
 
seem like the science has caught up with
 
 
seem like the science has caught up with
the rules huh so
 
 
the rules huh so
 
 
the rules huh so
the last thing you said is probably the
 
 
the last thing you said is probably the
 
 
the last thing you said is probably the
like i to me it's not fair you know um
 
 
like i to me it's not fair you know um
 
 
like i to me it's not fair you know um
and i say that as compassionately as i
 
 
and i say that as compassionately as i
 
 
and i say that as compassionately as i
can say
 
 
can say
 
 
can say
i i would and
 
 
i i would and
 
 
i i would and
i think the way that it will become fair
 
 
i think the way that it will become fair
 
 
i think the way that it will become fair
is that if we continue to have
 
 
is that if we continue to have
 
 
is that if we continue to have
conversations about what is fair
 
 
conversations about what is fair
 
 
conversations about what is fair
and i think that is where we need to be
 
 
and i think that is where we need to be
 
 
and i think that is where we need to be
right now um
 
 
right now um
 
 
right now um
uh there's no leah doesn't have anything
 
 
uh there's no leah doesn't have anything
 
 
uh there's no leah doesn't have anything
to be ashamed of
 
 
to be ashamed of
 
 
to be ashamed of
she adhered to the rules the way the
 
 
she adhered to the rules the way the
 
 
she adhered to the rules the way the
rules exactly she doesn't have anything
 
 
rules exactly she doesn't have anything
 
 
rules exactly she doesn't have anything
to be ashamed of uh it would be
 
 
to be ashamed of uh it would be
 
 
to be ashamed of uh it would be
gut-wrenching if you were one of the
 
 
gut-wrenching if you were one of the
 
 
gut-wrenching if you were one of the
other ladies who feels like she got an
 
 
other ladies who feels like she got an
 
 
other ladies who feels like she got an
unfair advantage so let's listen to some
 
 
unfair advantage so let's listen to some
 
 
unfair advantage so let's listen to some
people on this okay michael phelps he
 
 
people on this okay michael phelps he
 
 
people on this okay michael phelps he
knows a little bit something about
 
 
knows a little bit something about
 
 
knows a little bit something about
swimming he was um
 
 
swimming he was um
 
 
swimming he was um
not too long ago uh and he spoke out on
 
 
not too long ago uh and he spoke out on
 
 
not too long ago uh and he spoke out on
the topic i mean look like i i'll say
 
 
the topic i mean look like i i'll say
 
 
the topic i mean look like i i'll say
you know i i can talk from a standpoint
 
 
you know i i can talk from a standpoint
 
 
you know i i can talk from a standpoint
of of
 
 
of of
 
 
of of
doping um you know i i don't think i've
 
 
doping um you know i i don't think i've
 
 
doping um you know i i don't think i've
competed in a clean field in my entire
 
 
competed in a clean field in my entire
 
 
competed in a clean field in my entire
career
 
 
career
 
 
career
um so
 
 
um so
 
 
um so
you know i i think this leads back to
 
 
you know i i think this leads back to
 
 
you know i i think this leads back to
the organizing committees again
 
 
the organizing committees again
 
 
the organizing committees again
um because it has to be a level playing
 
 
um because it has to be a level playing
 
 
um because it has to be a level playing
field i think that's something that that
 
 
field i think that's something that that
 
 
field i think that's something that that
we all need
 
 
we all need
 
 
we all need
um because it's it like that's what
 
 
um because it's it like that's what
 
 
um because it's it like that's what
sports are uh and and for me um i i
 
 
sports are uh and and for me um i i
 
 
sports are uh and and for me um i i
don't know where this is going to go i
 
 
don't know where this is going to go i
 
 
don't know where this is going to go i
don't know um what's going to happen um
 
 
don't know um what's going to happen um
 
 
don't know um what's going to happen um
i believe that
 
 
i believe that
 
 
i believe that
we all should feel comfortable with who
 
 
we all should feel comfortable with who
 
 
we all should feel comfortable with who
we are in our own skin um but i think
 
 
we are in our own skin um but i think
 
 
we are in our own skin um but i think
sport should all be played in an even
 
 
sport should all be played in an even
 
 
sport should all be played in an even
playing field i don't know what that
 
 
playing field i don't know what that
 
 
playing field i don't know what that
looks like in the future um but it's
 
 
looks like in the future um but it's
 
 
looks like in the future um but it's
it's it's
 
 
 
 
it's hard
 
 
it's hard
 
 
it's hard
okay uh so
 
 
okay uh so
 
 
okay uh so
interesting that that's michael phelps
 
 
interesting that that's michael phelps
 
 
interesting that that's michael phelps
yale transgender swimmer isaac hennig
 
 
yale transgender swimmer isaac hennig
 
 
yale transgender swimmer isaac hennig
who actually beat
 
 
who actually beat
 
 
who actually beat
leah thomas in january
 
 
leah thomas in january
 
 
leah thomas in january
uh recently spoke about the controversy
 
 
uh recently spoke about the controversy
 
 
uh recently spoke about the controversy
and offered the other side of the
 
 
and offered the other side of the
 
 
and offered the other side of the
argument check it out things that i
 
 
argument check it out things that i
 
 
argument check it out things that i
always come back to is an athlete like
 
 
always come back to is an athlete like
 
 
always come back to is an athlete like
michael phelps who we can all point to
 
 
michael phelps who we can all point to
 
 
michael phelps who we can all point to
and say yeah he has twice the lung
 
 
and say yeah he has twice the lung
 
 
and say yeah he has twice the lung
capacity of any one of his competitors
 
 
capacity of any one of his competitors
 
 
capacity of any one of his competitors
but no one was
 
 
but no one was
 
 
but no one was
upset or you know calling it unfair if
 
 
upset or you know calling it unfair if
 
 
upset or you know calling it unfair if
you're gonna point to those things then
 
 
you're gonna point to those things then
 
 
you're gonna point to those things then
your conclusion has to be well yeah they
 
 
your conclusion has to be well yeah they
 
 
your conclusion has to be well yeah they
were built to do sport you know or they
 
 
were built to do sport you know or they
 
 
were built to do sport you know or they
were built to swim it's not about
 
 
were built to swim it's not about
 
 
were built to swim it's not about
puberty because anyone can can go
 
 
puberty because anyone can can go
 
 
puberty because anyone can can go
through any sort of hormonal change and
 
 
through any sort of hormonal change and
 
 
through any sort of hormonal change and
still not be a great athlete because
 
 
still not be a great athlete because
 
 
still not be a great athlete because
there is just so much more to great
 
 
there is just so much more to great
 
 
there is just so much more to great
athletes than
 
 
athletes than
 
 
athletes than
hormones all right
 
 
hormones all right
 
 
hormones all right
um martina navratilova who obviously
 
 
um martina navratilova who obviously
 
 
um martina navratilova who obviously
martina navratilova
 
 
martina navratilova
 
 
martina navratilova
navratilova
 
 
 
 
i could say her name in the past martina
 
 
i could say her name in the past martina
 
 
i could say her name in the past martina
navratilova
 
 
navratilova
 
 
navratilova
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
weighed in on it and was
 
 
weighed in on it and was
 
 
weighed in on it and was
absolutely direct
 
 
absolutely direct
 
 
absolutely direct
says that leah should not be able to
 
 
says that leah should not be able to
 
 
says that leah should not be able to
compete and this is completely unfair
 
 
compete and this is completely unfair
 
 
compete and this is completely unfair
well it's not about excluding
 
 
well it's not about excluding
 
 
well it's not about excluding
transgender women from winning ever
 
 
transgender women from winning ever
 
 
transgender women from winning ever
but it is about not allowing them to win
 
 
but it is about not allowing them to win
 
 
but it is about not allowing them to win
when they were not anywhere near winning
 
 
when they were not anywhere near winning
 
 
when they were not anywhere near winning
as as as men the solution perhaps for
 
 
as as as men the solution perhaps for
 
 
as as as men the solution perhaps for
now is to swim in a lane you can compete
 
 
now is to swim in a lane you can compete
 
 
now is to swim in a lane you can compete
but you don't get the medal um because
 
 
but you don't get the medal um because
 
 
but you don't get the medal um because
the rules are not correct but right now
 
 
the rules are not correct but right now
 
 
the rules are not correct but right now
the rules are what they are maybe put an
 
 
the rules are what they are maybe put an
 
 
the rules are what they are maybe put an
asterisk there if she starts breaking
 
 
asterisk there if she starts breaking
 
 
asterisk there if she starts breaking
records left and right leah goes to the
 
 
records left and right leah goes to the
 
 
records left and right leah goes to the
olympics because she's hitting her prime
 
 
olympics because she's hitting her prime
 
 
olympics because she's hitting her prime
now physically and in the future maybe
 
 
now physically and in the future maybe
 
 
now physically and in the future maybe
have a it should be an open category for
 
 
have a it should be an open category for
 
 
have a it should be an open category for
for everybody and then biological
 
 
for everybody and then biological
 
 
for everybody and then biological
females so let's litigate this real
 
 
females so let's litigate this real
 
 
females so let's litigate this real
quick
 
 
quick
 
 
quick
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
isaac says
 
 
isaac says
 
 
isaac says
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
in this particular situation
 
 
in this particular situation
 
 
in this particular situation
that certain athletes have certain
 
 
that certain athletes have certain
 
 
that certain athletes have certain
advantages
 
 
advantages
 
 
advantages
and he pointed to the fact that michael
 
 
and he pointed to the fact that michael
 
 
and he pointed to the fact that michael
phelps
 
 
phelps
 
 
phelps
has an advantage because of increased
 
 
has an advantage because of increased
 
 
has an advantage because of increased
uh lung capacity
 
 
uh lung capacity
 
 
uh lung capacity
we all know that to be true
 
 
we all know that to be true
 
 
we all know that to be true
within sports
 
 
within sports
 
 
within sports
the playing field
 
 
the playing field
 
 
the playing field
is not equal it's level and they're two
 
 
is not equal it's level and they're two
 
 
is not equal it's level and they're two
different things
 
 
different things
 
 
different things
the equal playing field would be
 
 
the equal playing field would be
 
 
the equal playing field would be
everybody is 5 foot 10
 
 
everybody is 5 foot 10
 
 
everybody is 5 foot 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has that's not his it's a level playing
 
 
has that's not his it's a level playing
 
 
has that's not his it's a level playing
field mean meaning we all qualify under
 
 
field mean meaning we all qualify under
 
 
field mean meaning we all qualify under
the same thing for example uh boxing
 
 
the same thing for example uh boxing
 
 
the same thing for example uh boxing
they try to level the playing field in
 
 
they try to level the playing field in
 
 
they try to level the playing field in
boxing as much as they can by having
 
 
boxing as much as they can by having
 
 
boxing as much as they can by having
weight classes
 
 
weight classes
 
 
weight classes
you would not have a heavy weight which
 
 
you would not have a heavy weight which
 
 
you would not have a heavy weight which
i am boxing against a 147 pounder you
 
 
i am boxing against a 147 pounder you
 
 
i am boxing against a 147 pounder you
wouldn't have that right
 
 
wouldn't have that right
 
 
wouldn't have that right
now within the 170 147 pound division
 
 
now within the 170 147 pound division
 
 
now within the 170 147 pound division
there are of course differences in
 
 
there are of course differences in
 
 
there are of course differences in
talent differences in reflexes
 
 
talent differences in reflexes
 
 
talent differences in reflexes
differences
 
 
differences
 
 
differences
in stamina the ability to take a punch
 
 
in stamina the ability to take a punch
 
 
in stamina the ability to take a punch
all of those things right
 
 
all of those things right
 
 
all of those things right
the question is
 
 
the question is
 
 
the question is
does being born
 
 
does being born
 
 
does being born
male having the chromosome whatever it
 
 
male having the chromosome whatever it
 
 
male having the chromosome whatever it
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
make it
 
 
make it
 
 
make it
completely out of the question
 
 
completely out of the question
 
 
completely out of the question
after because i guess i was wrong i
 
 
after because i guess i was wrong i
 
 
after because i guess i was wrong i
misspoke earlier leah had been uh
 
 
misspoke earlier leah had been uh
 
 
misspoke earlier leah had been uh
transitioning since
 
 
transitioning since
 
 
transitioning since
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
two years
 
 
two years
 
 
two years
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
is that too much of an advantage
 
 
is that too much of an advantage
 
 
is that too much of an advantage
in order uh in order to compete with
 
 
in order uh in order to compete with
 
 
in order uh in order to compete with
women
 
 
women
 
 
women
this is what too much is this being born
 
 
this is what too much is this being born
 
 
this is what too much is this being born
by biologically male
 
 
by biologically male
 
 
by biologically male
is that too big of an advantage to be
 
 
is that too big of an advantage to be
 
 
is that too big of an advantage to be
able to completely compete against other
 
 
able to completely compete against other
 
 
able to completely compete against other
women
 
 
women
 
 
women
um
 
 
 
 
i'm gonna be honest with you here
 
 
i'm gonna be honest with you here
 
 
i'm gonna be honest with you here
okay
 
 
okay
 
 
okay
in my opinion this is not fair
 
 
in my opinion this is not fair
 
 
in my opinion this is not fair
uh i
 
 
 
 
i don't really feel like it's hyper
 
 
i don't really feel like it's hyper
 
 
i don't really feel like it's hyper
controversial that it isn't fair i think
 
 
controversial that it isn't fair i think
 
 
controversial that it isn't fair i think
it brings up a lot of questions it
 
 
it brings up a lot of questions it
 
 
it brings up a lot of questions it
brings up the questions that we have in
 
 
brings up the questions that we have in
 
 
brings up the questions that we have in
terms of the differences between men and
 
 
terms of the differences between men and
 
 
terms of the differences between men and
women sports
 
 
women sports
 
 
women sports
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
in and of themselves you know what i
 
 
in and of themselves you know what i
 
 
in and of themselves you know what i
mean you know if you compare many men
 
 
mean you know if you compare many men
 
 
mean you know if you compare many men
and women sports across the board
 
 
and women sports across the board
 
 
and women sports across the board
uh in most sports you'll see the men
 
 
uh in most sports you'll see the men
 
 
uh in most sports you'll see the men
performing in a different way
 
 
performing in a different way
 
 
performing in a different way
because
 
 
because
 
 
because
physiologically men are different than
 
 
physiologically men are different than
 
 
physiologically men are different than
women
 
 
women
 
 
women
men are different than women
 
 
men are different than women
 
 
men are different than women
physiologically the question is
 
 
physiologically the question is
 
 
physiologically the question is
in order to make sure we have a place
 
 
in order to make sure we have a place
 
 
in order to make sure we have a place
where
 
 
where
 
 
where
trans kids trans adults trans americans
 
 
trans kids trans adults trans americans
 
 
trans kids trans adults trans americans
can compete and not feel like they can't
 
 
can compete and not feel like they can't
 
 
can compete and not feel like they can't
express themselves in a world of sports
 
 
express themselves in a world of sports
 
 
express themselves in a world of sports
how level of a playing field can we make
 
 
how level of a playing field can we make
 
 
how level of a playing field can we make
it can we make it a level enough playing
 
 
it can we make it a level enough playing
 
 
it can we make it a level enough playing
field where
 
 
field where
 
 
field where
it can actually be fair
 
 
it can actually be fair
 
 
it can actually be fair
because if it's not
 
 
because if it's not
 
 
because if it's not
then i want to make sure that everyone
 
 
then i want to make sure that everyone
 
 
then i want to make sure that everyone
understands what we're talking about
 
 
understands what we're talking about
 
 
understands what we're talking about
we're talking about then
 
 
we're talking about then
 
 
we're talking about then
the potential
 
 
the potential
 
 
the potential
of having
 
 
of having
 
 
of having
women's sports
 
 
women's sports
 
 
women's sports
dominated
 
 
dominated
 
 
dominated
perhaps
 
 
perhaps
 
 
perhaps
dominated
 
 
dominated
 
 
dominated
by trans athletes
 
 
by trans athletes
 
 
by trans athletes
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
there are a lot of people who say hey
 
 
there are a lot of people who say hey
 
 
there are a lot of people who say hey
it's
 
 
it's
 
 
it's
women dominating women
 
 
women dominating women
 
 
women dominating women
fine by me
 
 
fine by me
 
 
fine by me
it is women dominating women trans women
 
 
it is women dominating women trans women
 
 
it is women dominating women trans women
are women but
 
 
 
 
how do we get to a point to where
 
 
how do we get to a point to where
 
 
how do we get to a point to where
without pitchforks and without fire that
 
 
without pitchforks and without fire that
 
 
without pitchforks and without fire that
we can have a conversation about this
 
 
we can have a conversation about this
 
 
we can have a conversation about this
that actually dissects the actual issue
 
 
that actually dissects the actual issue
 
 
that actually dissects the actual issue
that it's not like hey you know it's not
 
 
that it's not like hey you know it's not
 
 
that it's not like hey you know it's not
fair [ __ ] off and hey
 
 
fair [ __ ] off and hey
 
 
fair [ __ ] off and hey
well hey like like i'm a woman let me
 
 
well hey like like i'm a woman let me
 
 
well hey like like i'm a woman let me
compete with everyone even though i have
 
 
compete with everyone even though i have
 
 
compete with everyone even though i have
a clear clear physiological advantage
 
 
a clear clear physiological advantage
 
 
a clear clear physiological advantage
over them that i wouldn't have had
 
 
over them that i wouldn't have had
 
 
over them that i wouldn't have had
otherwise
 
 
otherwise
 
 
otherwise
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
uh we all got to grow up and put our our
 
 
uh we all got to grow up and put our our
 
 
uh we all got to grow up and put our our
big boy and girl pants on this one we we
 
 
big boy and girl pants on this one we we
 
 
big boy and girl pants on this one we we
really do and we have to be unafraid to
 
 
really do and we have to be unafraid to
 
 
really do and we have to be unafraid to
have the conversation well and i think
 
 
have the conversation well and i think
 
 
have the conversation well and i think
that the most damning evidence in the
 
 
that the most damning evidence in the
 
 
that the most damning evidence in the
leah thomas case is
 
 
leah thomas case is
 
 
leah thomas case is
what she placed when she was competing
 
 
what she placed when she was competing
 
 
what she placed when she was competing
on the men's team versus what she placed
 
 
on the men's team versus what she placed
 
 
on the men's team versus what she placed
competing against the women's team now
 
 
competing against the women's team now
 
 
competing against the women's team now
if you just look at that
 
 
if you just look at that
 
 
if you just look at that
okay like you can't deny it now if you
 
 
okay like you can't deny it now if you
 
 
okay like you can't deny it now if you
want to take isaac's point of view
 
 
want to take isaac's point of view
 
 
want to take isaac's point of view
that's right right it's isaacs
 
 
that's right right it's isaacs
 
 
that's right right it's isaacs
and which we should point out is um
 
 
and which we should point out is um
 
 
and which we should point out is um
a trans man but is still competing on
 
 
a trans man but is still competing on
 
 
a trans man but is still competing on
the women's team because she has not
 
 
the women's team because she has not
 
 
the women's team because she has not
gone through the transition she stopped
 
 
gone through the transition she stopped
 
 
gone through the transition she stopped
right we should acknowledge that
 
 
right we should acknowledge that
 
 
right we should acknowledge that
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
if you take what she's saying in regards
 
 
if you take what she's saying in regards
 
 
if you take what she's saying in regards
to michael phelps then it's like okay
 
 
to michael phelps then it's like okay
 
 
to michael phelps then it's like okay
michael phelps has twice the lung
 
 
michael phelps has twice the lung
 
 
michael phelps has twice the lung
capacity as
 
 
capacity as
 
 
capacity as
you know a
 
 
you know a
 
 
you know a
regular swimmer is that what it is that
 
 
regular swimmer is that what it is that
 
 
regular swimmer is that what it is that
what this is it is he's got twice he's
 
 
what this is it is he's got twice he's
 
 
what this is it is he's got twice he's
got bigger lungs yeah bigger lungs okay
 
 
got bigger lungs yeah bigger lungs okay
 
 
got bigger lungs yeah bigger lungs okay
then
 
 
then
 
 
then
break that down in leah thomas's case
 
 
break that down in leah thomas's case
 
 
break that down in leah thomas's case
you know does leah have bigger lungs and
 
 
you know does leah have bigger lungs and
 
 
you know does leah have bigger lungs and
then it's like okay well she's got this
 
 
then it's like okay well she's got this
 
 
then it's like okay well she's got this
type of you know physiological advantage
 
 
type of you know physiological advantage
 
 
type of you know physiological advantage
it's not because she's transitioned to a
 
 
it's not because she's transitioned to a
 
 
it's not because she's transitioned to a
woman from a man to a woman i think you
 
 
woman from a man to a woman i think you
 
 
woman from a man to a woman i think you
have to i literally think you have to
 
 
have to i literally think you have to
 
 
have to i literally think you have to
break it down like that
 
 
break it down like that
 
 
break it down like that
because if you can't point to something
 
 
because if you can't point to something
 
 
because if you can't point to something
else then logically when you break it
 
 
else then logically when you break it
 
 
else then logically when you break it
down
 
 
down
 
 
down
what else are you going to point to when
 
 
what else are you going to point to when
 
 
what else are you going to point to when
you talk look at the numbers of what
 
 
you talk look at the numbers of what
 
 
you talk look at the numbers of what
happened when she was on the men's team
 
 
happened when she was on the men's team
 
 
happened when she was on the men's team
versus when she was on the women's team
 
 
versus when she was on the women's team
 
 
versus when she was on the women's team
and i really that's why i say that's the
 
 
and i really that's why i say that's the
 
 
and i really that's why i say that's the
most damning
 
 
most damning
 
 
most damning
evidence i think when it comes to this
 
 
evidence i think when it comes to this
 
 
evidence i think when it comes to this
as to why it appears unfair
 
 
as to why it appears unfair
 
 
as to why it appears unfair
because we've seen what happened in one
 
 
because we've seen what happened in one
 
 
because we've seen what happened in one
in one instance and we've seen what
 
 
in one instance and we've seen what
 
 
in one instance and we've seen what
happens in another and you can't deny
 
 
happens in another and you can't deny
 
 
happens in another and you can't deny
that but then it also seems very unfair
 
 
that but then it also seems very unfair
 
 
that but then it also seems very unfair
to start
 
 
to start
 
 
to start
you know subjecting trans men and women
 
 
you know subjecting trans men and women
 
 
you know subjecting trans men and women
to these case-by-case tests and them
 
 
to these case-by-case tests and them
 
 
to these case-by-case tests and them
constantly having to test every six
 
 
constantly having to test every six
 
 
constantly having to test every six
months or three months or a year
 
 
months or three months or a year
 
 
months or three months or a year
whatever it it may be or putting them in
 
 
whatever it it may be or putting them in
 
 
whatever it it may be or putting them in
a separate lane from everyone else and
 
 
a separate lane from everyone else and
 
 
a separate lane from everyone else and
now you're not acknowledging you know
 
 
now you're not acknowledging you know
 
 
now you're not acknowledging you know
who they are it is very complicated but
 
 
who they are it is very complicated but
 
 
who they are it is very complicated but
i think that you can't just say
 
 
i think that you can't just say
 
 
i think that you can't just say
well they're a woman or they're a man
 
 
well they're a woman or they're a man
 
 
well they're a woman or they're a man
it can't be that simple when you look at
 
 
it can't be that simple when you look at
 
 
it can't be that simple when you look at
a case like leah thomas you it just
 
 
a case like leah thomas you it just
 
 
a case like leah thomas you it just
can't this is my fear
 
 
 
 
so you get people on this and we we seem
 
 
so you get people on this and we we seem
 
 
so you get people on this and we we seem
to have drawn a clear moral line in the
 
 
to have drawn a clear moral line in the
 
 
to have drawn a clear moral line in the
sand between two groups of groups of
 
 
sand between two groups of groups of
 
 
sand between two groups of groups of
people in this country
 
 
people in this country
 
 
people in this country
on one side there are people who are
 
 
on one side there are people who are
 
 
on one side there are people who are
willing to
 
 
willing to
 
 
willing to
fight for
 
 
fight for
 
 
fight for
equality fight for inclusion
 
 
equality fight for inclusion
 
 
equality fight for inclusion
fight for an ever expanding definition
 
 
fight for an ever expanding definition
 
 
fight for an ever expanding definition
of what it means to be an american
 
 
of what it means to be an american
 
 
of what it means to be an american
these people are on one side of this
 
 
these people are on one side of this
 
 
these people are on one side of this
line
 
 
line
 
 
line
these people are willing to have
 
 
these people are willing to have
 
 
these people are willing to have
uh uncomfortable conversations
 
 
uh uncomfortable conversations
 
 
uh uncomfortable conversations
these people are willing to
 
 
these people are willing to
 
 
these people are willing to
advocate for people who they don't
 
 
advocate for people who they don't
 
 
advocate for people who they don't
really
 
 
really
 
 
really
understand um these people are willing
 
 
understand um these people are willing
 
 
understand um these people are willing
to go forward with love
 
 
to go forward with love
 
 
to go forward with love
and try to break by brick building in
 
 
and try to break by brick building in
 
 
and try to break by brick building in
america
 
 
america
 
 
america
all right that everyone can see
 
 
all right that everyone can see
 
 
all right that everyone can see
themselves in
 
 
themselves in
 
 
themselves in
on the other side of this line
 
 
on the other side of this line
 
 
on the other side of this line
there it's another group of people that
 
 
there it's another group of people that
 
 
there it's another group of people that
other group of people seems to be a
 
 
other group of people seems to be a
 
 
other group of people seems to be a
group of people
 
 
group of people
 
 
group of people
who believe in the american status quo
 
 
who believe in the american status quo
 
 
who believe in the american status quo
to a degree
 
 
to a degree
 
 
to a degree
where they want to tell you everything
 
 
where they want to tell you everything
 
 
where they want to tell you everything
you can and cannot do
 
 
you can and cannot do
 
 
you can and cannot do
uh while you're in this country they
 
 
uh while you're in this country they
 
 
uh while you're in this country they
want to tell you what you can do with
 
 
want to tell you what you can do with
 
 
want to tell you what you can do with
your body
 
 
your body
 
 
your body
they want to tell you who you are they
 
 
they want to tell you who you are they
 
 
they want to tell you who you are they
want to tell you where you can go
 
 
want to tell you where you can go
 
 
want to tell you where you can go
and i think we know very clearly who
 
 
and i think we know very clearly who
 
 
and i think we know very clearly who
those people are
 
 
those people are
 
 
those people are
those people
 
 
those people
 
 
those people
take instances like this yeah
 
 
take instances like this yeah
 
 
take instances like this yeah
where the layperson looks at this and
 
 
where the layperson looks at this and
 
 
where the layperson looks at this and
says that's obviously not fair
 
 
says that's obviously not fair
 
 
says that's obviously not fair
and they weaponize this issue right
 
 
and they weaponize this issue right
 
 
and they weaponize this issue right
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
they weaponize it and they make it a
 
 
they weaponize it and they make it a
 
 
they weaponize it and they make it a
very very easy
 
 
very very easy
 
 
very very easy
uh sort of
 
 
uh sort of
 
 
uh sort of
political sacrificial lamb to show
 
 
political sacrificial lamb to show
 
 
political sacrificial lamb to show
everyone just how crazy we all are
 
 
everyone just how crazy we all are
 
 
everyone just how crazy we all are
right
 
 
right
 
 
right
we
 
 
we
 
 
we
have to be braver than they are
 
 
have to be braver than they are
 
 
have to be braver than they are
insane and it's very very tough we have
 
 
insane and it's very very tough we have
 
 
insane and it's very very tough we have
to be braver than they are crazy and
 
 
to be braver than they are crazy and
 
 
to be braver than they are crazy and
it's it's it's hard because in certain
 
 
it's it's it's hard because in certain
 
 
it's it's it's hard because in certain
situations
 
 
situations
 
 
situations
in dealing with things that are this
 
 
in dealing with things that are this
 
 
in dealing with things that are this
complicated
 
 
complicated
 
 
complicated
there's not always going it's not always
 
 
there's not always going it's not always
 
 
there's not always going it's not always
going to end up the way that we thought
 
 
going to end up the way that we thought
 
 
going to end up the way that we thought
it did
 
 
it did
 
 
it did
and we have to be unafraid to actually
 
 
and we have to be unafraid to actually
 
 
and we have to be unafraid to actually
say that in this particular situation
 
 
say that in this particular situation
 
 
say that in this particular situation
it might be a case to where we go okay
 
 
it might be a case to where we go okay
 
 
it might be a case to where we go okay
we're going to get to what's right but
 
 
we're going to get to what's right but
 
 
we're going to get to what's right but
this particular situation this is
 
 
this particular situation this is
 
 
this particular situation this is
obviously not right this is we obviously
 
 
obviously not right this is we obviously
 
 
obviously not right this is we obviously
have a ways to go
 
 
have a ways to go
 
 
have a ways to go
in order to understand
 
 
in order to understand
 
 
in order to understand
how this is going to be done in a
 
 
how this is going to be done in a
 
 
how this is going to be done in a
holistic way but we
 
 
holistic way but we
 
 
holistic way but we
have to be brave meaning
 
 
have to be brave meaning
 
 
have to be brave meaning
we can't get the pitchforks out for one
 
 
we can't get the pitchforks out for one
 
 
we can't get the pitchforks out for one
another we have to be able to talk ask
 
 
another we have to be able to talk ask
 
 
another we have to be able to talk ask
questions and we have to accept the
 
 
questions and we have to accept the
 
 
questions and we have to accept the
information that we get back right and i
 
 
information that we get back right and i
 
 
information that we get back right and i
think that's the real exercise of this
 
 
think that's the real exercise of this
 
 
think that's the real exercise of this
particular situation the real exercise
 
 
particular situation the real exercise
 
 
particular situation the real exercise
of this particular situation is not
 
 
of this particular situation is not
 
 
of this particular situation is not
about them for one time i don't agree
 
 
about them for one time i don't agree
 
 
about them for one time i don't agree
now what now what do we do
 
 
now what now what do we do
 
 
now what now what do we do
do we figure out who's right and who's
 
 
do we figure out who's right and who's
 
 
do we figure out who's right and who's
wrong is there a right or wrong or
 
 
wrong is there a right or wrong or
 
 
wrong is there a right or wrong or
do we need to work together to establish
 
 
do we need to work together to establish
 
 
do we need to work together to establish
what right is that is it's the purpose
 
 
what right is that is it's the purpose
 
 
what right is that is it's the purpose
behind it right the purpose isn't to say
 
 
behind it right the purpose isn't to say
 
 
behind it right the purpose isn't to say
that they can't compete the purpose is
 
 
that they can't compete the purpose is
 
 
that they can't compete the purpose is
how can we come together to get it to a
 
 
how can we come together to get it to a
 
 
how can we come together to get it to a
point where it seems to use your word
 
 
point where it seems to use your word
 
 
point where it seems to use your word
leveled for everyone that's the purpose
 
 
leveled for everyone that's the purpose
 
 
leveled for everyone that's the purpose
that's the motivating force behind it
 
 
that's the motivating force behind it
 
 
that's the motivating force behind it
it's not a right or wrong it's how can
 
 
it's not a right or wrong it's how can
 
 
it's not a right or wrong it's how can
we get this to a place where the rules
 
 
we get this to a place where the rules
 
 
we get this to a place where the rules
catch up to what is is is going on and
 
 
catch up to what is is is going on and
 
 
catch up to what is is is going on and
you know in society or in sports or
 
 
you know in society or in sports or
 
 
you know in society or in sports or
whatever the issue may be that's the
 
 
whatever the issue may be that's the
 
 
whatever the issue may be that's the
goal but yes when the other side picks
 
 
goal but yes when the other side picks
 
 
goal but yes when the other side picks
it apart and uses what you might have
 
 
it apart and uses what you might have
 
 
it apart and uses what you might have
said in this conversation or me to their
 
 
said in this conversation or me to their
 
 
said in this conversation or me to their
advantage they're missing they have a
 
 
advantage they're missing they have a
 
 
advantage they're missing they have a
totally different purpose and and and
 
 
totally different purpose and and and
 
 
totally different purpose and and and
motivating force behind what it is that
 
 
motivating force behind what it is that
 
 
motivating force behind what it is that
they want to do and i think that's how
 
 
they want to do and i think that's how
 
 
they want to do and i think that's how
you have to look at it and i think one
 
 
you have to look at it and i think one
 
 
you have to look at it and i think one
of the biggest most important things you
 
 
of the biggest most important things you
 
 
of the biggest most important things you
said is and none of and none of this is
 
 
said is and none of and none of this is
 
 
said is and none of and none of this is
leah thomas's fault she's doing exactly
 
 
leah thomas's fault she's doing exactly
 
 
leah thomas's fault she's doing exactly
what she's supposed to she's working
 
 
what she's supposed to she's working
 
 
what she's supposed to she's working
within the rules she's being true to
 
 
within the rules she's being true to
 
 
within the rules she's being true to
herself and working within these roles
 
 
herself and working within these roles
 
 
herself and working within these roles
and we should say that the ncaa
 
 
and we should say that the ncaa
 
 
and we should say that the ncaa
uh has been very vague and sort of
 
 
uh has been very vague and sort of
 
 
uh has been very vague and sort of
effectless on their rules for
 
 
effectless on their rules for
 
 
effectless on their rules for
competition here they've punted this
 
 
competition here they've punted this
 
 
competition here they've punted this
several times they came out with new
 
 
several times they came out with new
 
 
several times they came out with new
guidelines not too long ago those
 
 
guidelines not too long ago those
 
 
guidelines not too long ago those
guidelines just continued to
 
 
guidelines just continued to
 
 
guidelines just continued to
kick
 
 
kick
 
 
kick
the situation to the individual sports
 
 
the situation to the individual sports
 
 
the situation to the individual sports
and then to the actual individual
 
 
and then to the actual individual
 
 
and then to the actual individual
agencies and then all the way up to the
 
 
agencies and then all the way up to the
 
 
agencies and then all the way up to the
olympic agencies that will govern the
 
 
olympic agencies that will govern the
 
 
olympic agencies that will govern the
entire sport at the olympic level the
 
 
entire sport at the olympic level the
 
 
entire sport at the olympic level the
ncaa seems to not want to set guidelines
 
 
ncaa seems to not want to set guidelines
 
 
ncaa seems to not want to set guidelines
that make this
 
 
that make this
 
 
that make this
an issue that people have clarity on
 
 
an issue that people have clarity on
 
 
an issue that people have clarity on
because let's be real with you
 
 
because let's be real with you
 
 
because let's be real with you
it's quagmire it's a powder cat okay
 
 
it's quagmire it's a powder cat okay
 
 
it's quagmire it's a powder cat okay
something that is very politically
 
 
something that is very politically
 
 
something that is very politically
charged it's socially charged um and
 
 
charged it's socially charged um and
 
 
charged it's socially charged um and
it's delicate
 
 
it's delicate
 
 
it's delicate
uh what we want to do here was make sure
 
 
uh what we want to do here was make sure
 
 
uh what we want to do here was make sure
that we had somebody on the podcast that
 
 
that we had somebody on the podcast that
 
 
that we had somebody on the podcast that
could speak
 
 
could speak
 
 
could speak
to the issues and to the feelings
 
 
to the issues and to the feelings
 
 
to the issues and to the feelings
of the transgender community on this and
 
 
of the transgender community on this and
 
 
of the transgender community on this and
we have
 
 
we have
 
 
we have
raquel willis joining us
 
 
raquel willis joining us
 
 
raquel willis joining us
on the other side of this break on
 
 
on the other side of this break on
 
 
on the other side of this break on
higher learning transgender activists
 
 
higher learning transgender activists
 
 
higher learning transgender activists
all around fantastic human being
 
 
all around fantastic human being
 
 
all around fantastic human being
raquel willis will be joining us and
 
 
raquel willis will be joining us and
 
 
raquel willis will be joining us and
we're going to ask her some of these
 
 
we're going to ask her some of these
 
 
we're going to ask her some of these
questions um and hopefully we don't get
 
 
questions um and hopefully we don't get
 
 
questions um and hopefully we don't get
canceled you know we might
 
 
canceled you know we might
 
 
canceled you know we might
we'll see what happens all right on the
 
 
we'll see what happens all right on the
 
 
we'll see what happens all right on the
other side of this break okay so
 
 
other side of this break okay so
 
 
other side of this break okay so
we are we are talking about leah thomas
 
 
we are we are talking about leah thomas
 
 
we are we are talking about leah thomas
and we will be hard-pressed
 
 
and we will be hard-pressed
 
 
and we will be hard-pressed
not
 
 
not
 
 
not
to have a member of the community
 
 
to have a member of the community
 
 
to have a member of the community
on our podcast today and we are blessed
 
 
on our podcast today and we are blessed
 
 
on our podcast today and we are blessed
to have raquel willis who is a black
 
 
to have raquel willis who is a black
 
 
to have raquel willis who is a black
transgender activist writer and media
 
 
transgender activist writer and media
 
 
transgender activist writer and media
strategist
 
 
strategist
 
 
strategist
dedicated to elevating the dignity of
 
 
dedicated to elevating the dignity of
 
 
dedicated to elevating the dignity of
marginalized marginalized people
 
 
marginalized marginalized people
 
 
marginalized marginalized people
particularly black transgender people
 
 
particularly black transgender people
 
 
particularly black transgender people
now when i read that right there
 
 
now when i read that right there
 
 
now when i read that right there
that's like a lot
 
 
that's like a lot
 
 
that's like a lot
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
that's a lot to live up to do you ever
 
 
that's a lot to live up to do you ever
 
 
that's a lot to live up to do you ever
feel any pressure about like think about
 
 
feel any pressure about like think about
 
 
feel any pressure about like think about
it you're you're dedicated you're in the
 
 
it you're you're dedicated you're in the
 
 
it you're you're dedicated you're in the
fight you know like i have something
 
 
fight you know like i have something
 
 
fight you know like i have something
that's van lathan part-time ally that's
 
 
that's van lathan part-time ally that's
 
 
that's van lathan part-time ally that's
as deep as i get you know what i mean
 
 
as deep as i get you know what i mean
 
 
as deep as i get you know what i mean
but uh for you
 
 
but uh for you
 
 
but uh for you
like it seems like that's taking on a
 
 
like it seems like that's taking on a
 
 
like it seems like that's taking on a
lot black transgender activists
 
 
lot black transgender activists
 
 
lot black transgender activists
we know that
 
 
we know that
 
 
we know that
uh our trans brothers and sisters are
 
 
uh our trans brothers and sisters are
 
 
uh our trans brothers and sisters are
under attack in america so
 
 
under attack in america so
 
 
under attack in america so
the first question i'll start off with
 
 
the first question i'll start off with
 
 
the first question i'll start off with
is how are you doing
 
 
is how are you doing
 
 
is how are you doing
i am doing okay um you know it's women's
 
 
i am doing okay um you know it's women's
 
 
i am doing okay um you know it's women's
history month we're like
 
 
history month we're like
 
 
history month we're like
a week or so out from trans day of
 
 
a week or so out from trans day of
 
 
a week or so out from trans day of
visibility
 
 
visibility
 
 
visibility
um so it's a good time it's a hectic
 
 
um so it's a good time it's a hectic
 
 
um so it's a good time it's a hectic
time there are a lot of conversations
 
 
time there are a lot of conversations
 
 
time there are a lot of conversations
like these that i'm having
 
 
like these that i'm having
 
 
like these that i'm having
um and a lot of things that i'm working
 
 
um and a lot of things that i'm working
 
 
um and a lot of things that i'm working
on but i feel great you know i you know
 
 
on but i feel great you know i you know
 
 
on but i feel great you know i you know
i think one of the things people always
 
 
i think one of the things people always
 
 
i think one of the things people always
assume when i come into the room
 
 
assume when i come into the room
 
 
assume when i come into the room
bringing my full self as a black trans
 
 
bringing my full self as a black trans
 
 
bringing my full self as a black trans
woman oh your life is just tragic you
 
 
woman oh your life is just tragic you
 
 
woman oh your life is just tragic you
know they they don't even consider us as
 
 
know they they don't even consider us as
 
 
know they they don't even consider us as
anything but a hypothetical and it's
 
 
anything but a hypothetical and it's
 
 
anything but a hypothetical and it's
like no i'm i'm okay i just like had a
 
 
like no i'm i'm okay i just like had a
 
 
like no i'm i'm okay i just like had a
late lunch that might have been
 
 
 
 
but you know i have family that loves me
 
 
but you know i have family that loves me
 
 
but you know i have family that loves me
that cares about me i have friends and
 
 
that cares about me i have friends and
 
 
that cares about me i have friends and
community you know i was out at a play
 
 
community you know i was out at a play
 
 
community you know i was out at a play
the other night you know i have a life
 
 
the other night you know i have a life
 
 
the other night you know i have a life
outside of you know kind of being this
 
 
outside of you know kind of being this
 
 
outside of you know kind of being this
like
 
 
like
 
 
like
social justice like pillar i think for
 
 
social justice like pillar i think for
 
 
social justice like pillar i think for
other people
 
 
other people
 
 
other people
wow
 
 
wow
 
 
wow
yeah yeah uh you know i often you know
 
 
yeah yeah uh you know i often you know
 
 
yeah yeah uh you know i often you know
another thing about that is
 
 
another thing about that is
 
 
another thing about that is
why don't i get that because i have to
 
 
why don't i get that because i have to
 
 
why don't i get that because i have to
say that to people too sometimes people
 
 
say that to people too sometimes people
 
 
say that to people too sometimes people
will hit me up and they'll be like man
 
 
will hit me up and they'll be like man
 
 
will hit me up and they'll be like man
did you see this injustice that happened
 
 
did you see this injustice that happened
 
 
did you see this injustice that happened
and i'd be like bro it's sunday
 
 
and i'd be like bro it's sunday
 
 
and i'd be like bro it's sunday
i'm chilling
 
 
 
 
so uh leah thomas we're talking about
 
 
so uh leah thomas we're talking about
 
 
so uh leah thomas we're talking about
the fact that leah thomas uh
 
 
the fact that leah thomas uh
 
 
the fact that leah thomas uh
won ncaa swimming competition
 
 
won ncaa swimming competition
 
 
won ncaa swimming competition
and uh
 
 
and uh
 
 
and uh
that has really
 
 
that has really
 
 
that has really
ignited
 
 
ignited
 
 
ignited
a debate in america
 
 
a debate in america
 
 
a debate in america
a debate in america about what's fair
 
 
a debate in america about what's fair
 
 
a debate in america about what's fair
for female athletes
 
 
for female athletes
 
 
for female athletes
in terms of competition
 
 
in terms of competition
 
 
in terms of competition
against um
 
 
against um
 
 
against um
how do i say the competition against
 
 
how do i say the competition against
 
 
how do i say the competition against
trans women athletes right is that is
 
 
trans women athletes right is that is
 
 
trans women athletes right is that is
would that be the way to say it
 
 
would that be the way to say it
 
 
would that be the way to say it
now
 
 
now
 
 
now
the reason why i'm being so particularly
 
 
the reason why i'm being so particularly
 
 
the reason why i'm being so particularly
delicate here is because
 
 
delicate here is because
 
 
delicate here is because
i like a lot of people
 
 
i like a lot of people
 
 
i like a lot of people
look at the leah thomas situation
 
 
look at the leah thomas situation
 
 
look at the leah thomas situation
and at first when i see it i go well
 
 
and at first when i see it i go well
 
 
and at first when i see it i go well
that doesn't seem fair
 
 
that doesn't seem fair
 
 
that doesn't seem fair
but the purpose of having the discussion
 
 
but the purpose of having the discussion
 
 
but the purpose of having the discussion
on the podcast
 
 
on the podcast
 
 
on the podcast
is really in this situation to get to
 
 
is really in this situation to get to
 
 
is really in this situation to get to
what i and so many other people might be
 
 
what i and so many other people might be
 
 
what i and so many other people might be
missing when we have these discussions
 
 
missing when we have these discussions
 
 
missing when we have these discussions
that's why i'm glad
 
 
that's why i'm glad
 
 
that's why i'm glad
uh that you're here today tell me what
 
 
uh that you're here today tell me what
 
 
uh that you're here today tell me what
am i missing
 
 
am i missing
 
 
am i missing
for anyone who thinks that it doesn't
 
 
for anyone who thinks that it doesn't
 
 
for anyone who thinks that it doesn't
seem fair what am i missing i mean i
 
 
seem fair what am i missing i mean i
 
 
seem fair what am i missing i mean i
think we're missing a lot so i would
 
 
think we're missing a lot so i would
 
 
think we're missing a lot so i would
even back up i actually think the
 
 
even back up i actually think the
 
 
even back up i actually think the
transports conversation is one that
 
 
transports conversation is one that
 
 
transports conversation is one that
people lead with particularly people who
 
 
people lead with particularly people who
 
 
people lead with particularly people who
know that they don't like trans people
 
 
know that they don't like trans people
 
 
know that they don't like trans people
they lead with that one with the general
 
 
they lead with that one with the general
 
 
they lead with that one with the general
public because they know that it's so
 
 
public because they know that it's so
 
 
public because they know that it's so
convoluted they know that there are so
 
 
convoluted they know that there are so
 
 
convoluted they know that there are so
many different ways that we inhabit our
 
 
many different ways that we inhabit our
 
 
many different ways that we inhabit our
bodies whether you are trans or not
 
 
bodies whether you are trans or not
 
 
bodies whether you are trans or not
trans which we call cisgender
 
 
trans which we call cisgender
 
 
trans which we call cisgender
um so i think backing up and
 
 
um so i think backing up and
 
 
um so i think backing up and
understanding at the heart of a lot of
 
 
understanding at the heart of a lot of
 
 
understanding at the heart of a lot of
these conversations around
 
 
these conversations around
 
 
these conversations around
fairness and equality for trans people
 
 
fairness and equality for trans people
 
 
fairness and equality for trans people
is are trans people really who we say we
 
 
is are trans people really who we say we
 
 
is are trans people really who we say we
are
 
 
are
 
 
are
and so when we talk about trans women if
 
 
and so when we talk about trans women if
 
 
and so when we talk about trans women if
you can't even respect trans women as
 
 
you can't even respect trans women as
 
 
you can't even respect trans women as
women in the workplace or as women in
 
 
women in the workplace or as women in
 
 
women in the workplace or as women in
your family or as women in your
 
 
your family or as women in your
 
 
your family or as women in your
community then yeah it's going to be a
 
 
community then yeah it's going to be a
 
 
community then yeah it's going to be a
jump to understand that trans women
 
 
jump to understand that trans women
 
 
jump to understand that trans women
should be able to compete with other
 
 
should be able to compete with other
 
 
should be able to compete with other
women in schoolers
 
 
 
 
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
it's
 
 
it's
 
 
it's
like i'm i'm so so happy you're here to
 
 
like i'm i'm so so happy you're here to
 
 
like i'm i'm so so happy you're here to
have this conversation and to break it
 
 
have this conversation and to break it
 
 
have this conversation and to break it
down because sometimes and i'm sure a
 
 
down because sometimes and i'm sure a
 
 
down because sometimes and i'm sure a
lot of what we call our listeners
 
 
lot of what we call our listeners
 
 
lot of what we call our listeners
thought lawyers might feel this way as
 
 
thought lawyers might feel this way as
 
 
thought lawyers might feel this way as
well is
 
 
well is
 
 
well is
you know it's such a
 
 
you know it's such a
 
 
you know it's such a
as you said convoluted topic where i
 
 
as you said convoluted topic where i
 
 
as you said convoluted topic where i
feel like can i even speak about it you
 
 
feel like can i even speak about it you
 
 
feel like can i even speak about it you
know i'm not a part of the community i'm
 
 
know i'm not a part of the community i'm
 
 
know i'm not a part of the community i'm
not an athlete in that sense i mean you
 
 
not an athlete in that sense i mean you
 
 
not an athlete in that sense i mean you
know let me tell you back in the day you
 
 
know let me tell you back in the day you
 
 
know let me tell you back in the day you
know big race got around on the track in
 
 
know big race got around on the track in
 
 
know big race got around on the track in
the basketball shopping fan on the on
 
 
the basketball shopping fan on the on
 
 
the basketball shopping fan on the on
the track
 
 
the track
 
 
the track
but i'm not i was not a collegiate
 
 
but i'm not i was not a collegiate
 
 
but i'm not i was not a collegiate
athlete
 
 
athlete
 
 
athlete
and so i feel like do i even have the
 
 
and so i feel like do i even have the
 
 
and so i feel like do i even have the
right to speak up so even before i get
 
 
right to speak up so even before i get
 
 
right to speak up so even before i get
into that what would you say to someone
 
 
into that what would you say to someone
 
 
into that what would you say to someone
like me who comes to you and says like
 
 
like me who comes to you and says like
 
 
like me who comes to you and says like
can i even speak to
 
 
can i even speak to
 
 
can i even speak to
what's going on like can i have an
 
 
what's going on like can i have an
 
 
what's going on like can i have an
opinion sometimes i feel comfortable
 
 
opinion sometimes i feel comfortable
 
 
opinion sometimes i feel comfortable
about uncomfortable i mean about that
 
 
about uncomfortable i mean about that
 
 
about uncomfortable i mean about that
yeah i mean i think it's like any other
 
 
yeah i mean i think it's like any other
 
 
yeah i mean i think it's like any other
conversation that you might be having
 
 
conversation that you might be having
 
 
conversation that you might be having
about a community that
 
 
about a community that
 
 
about a community that
either you're not a part of or that is
 
 
either you're not a part of or that is
 
 
either you're not a part of or that is
on the margins i mean it's like white
 
 
on the margins i mean it's like white
 
 
on the margins i mean it's like white
people saying like should we be
 
 
people saying like should we be
 
 
people saying like should we be
discussing like the racism that like
 
 
discussing like the racism that like
 
 
discussing like the racism that like
this is just on my mind because i just
 
 
this is just on my mind because i just
 
 
this is just on my mind because i just
saw king richard but that serena and
 
 
saw king richard but that serena and
 
 
saw king richard but that serena and
venus experienced in sports right
 
 
venus experienced in sports right
 
 
venus experienced in sports right
i don't know that i would be comfortable
 
 
i don't know that i would be comfortable
 
 
i don't know that i would be comfortable
with the average white person
 
 
with the average white person
 
 
with the average white person
having a conversation with a white
 
 
having a conversation with a white
 
 
having a conversation with a white
person on a podcast
 
 
person on a podcast
 
 
person on a podcast
without you know the input of someone
 
 
without you know the input of someone
 
 
without you know the input of someone
who's actually a part of the community
 
 
who's actually a part of the community
 
 
who's actually a part of the community
and who knows what's going on so i
 
 
and who knows what's going on so i
 
 
and who knows what's going on so i
understand people's fears
 
 
understand people's fears
 
 
understand people's fears
and i think particularly for other black
 
 
and i think particularly for other black
 
 
and i think particularly for other black
folks
 
 
folks
 
 
folks
it's like well you also have to
 
 
it's like well you also have to
 
 
it's like well you also have to
understand that that is the same excuse
 
 
understand that that is the same excuse
 
 
understand that that is the same excuse
that like white people use to not engage
 
 
that like white people use to not engage
 
 
that like white people use to not engage
with race right not engage with the
 
 
with race right not engage with the
 
 
with race right not engage with the
differences that we may experience so i
 
 
differences that we may experience so i
 
 
differences that we may experience so i
think you know that fear is real it's
 
 
think you know that fear is real it's
 
 
think you know that fear is real it's
valid and also i think having these
 
 
valid and also i think having these
 
 
valid and also i think having these
conversations are so key but
 
 
conversations are so key but
 
 
conversations are so key but
you know i'm not a neuroscientist so i'm
 
 
you know i'm not a neuroscientist so i'm
 
 
you know i'm not a neuroscientist so i'm
not about to hop on a podcast
 
 
not about to hop on a podcast
 
 
not about to hop on a podcast
and have a conversation about
 
 
and have a conversation about
 
 
and have a conversation about
neuroscience without
 
 
neuroscience without
 
 
neuroscience without
having some conversations behind the
 
 
having some conversations behind the
 
 
having some conversations behind the
scenes first to see where
 
 
scenes first to see where
 
 
scenes first to see where
things are to understand things and to
 
 
things are to understand things and to
 
 
things are to understand things and to
also google and do my research right
 
 
also google and do my research right
 
 
also google and do my research right
first and i think that that's where we
 
 
first and i think that that's where we
 
 
first and i think that that's where we
have a lot of these problems is that a
 
 
have a lot of these problems is that a
 
 
have a lot of these problems is that a
lot of times the people who talk about
 
 
lot of times the people who talk about
 
 
lot of times the people who talk about
trans issues in the news or in politics
 
 
trans issues in the news or in politics
 
 
trans issues in the news or in politics
don't actually know trans people haven't
 
 
don't actually know trans people haven't
 
 
don't actually know trans people haven't
actually read anything that trans
 
 
actually read anything that trans
 
 
actually read anything that trans
writers journalists authors like myself
 
 
writers journalists authors like myself
 
 
writers journalists authors like myself
have written right have not consumed
 
 
have written right have not consumed
 
 
have written right have not consumed
authentic media from us and so they're
 
 
authentic media from us and so they're
 
 
authentic media from us and so they're
just kind of out there pontificating
 
 
just kind of out there pontificating
 
 
just kind of out there pontificating
with no like lifeboat to fall back on
 
 
with no like lifeboat to fall back on
 
 
with no like lifeboat to fall back on
you know right yeah so let me tell you
 
 
you know right yeah so let me tell you
 
 
you know right yeah so let me tell you
what my fear is and i mentioned this
 
 
what my fear is and i mentioned this
 
 
what my fear is and i mentioned this
earlier when we're breaking down the
 
 
earlier when we're breaking down the
 
 
earlier when we're breaking down the
topic on the podcast my fear is that
 
 
topic on the podcast my fear is that
 
 
topic on the podcast my fear is that
this
 
 
this
 
 
this
and this is
 
 
and this is
 
 
and this is
this is the [ __ ] burden that
 
 
this is the [ __ ] burden that
 
 
this is the [ __ ] burden that
marginalized people have to deal with
 
 
marginalized people have to deal with
 
 
marginalized people have to deal with
sometimes my fear is that this issue
 
 
sometimes my fear is that this issue
 
 
sometimes my fear is that this issue
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
just it's such a binary issue to so many
 
 
just it's such a binary issue to so many
 
 
just it's such a binary issue to so many
people that it normalizes the stock of
 
 
people that it normalizes the stock of
 
 
people that it normalizes the stock of
the [ __ ] right i think what we all
 
 
the [ __ ] right i think what we all
 
 
the [ __ ] right i think what we all
want in america is an america that's
 
 
want in america is an america that's
 
 
want in america is an america that's
equitable in america that is uh that
 
 
equitable in america that is uh that
 
 
equitable in america that is uh that
where we have equality where everyone
 
 
where we have equality where everyone
 
 
where we have equality where everyone
can live who they are be who they are
 
 
can live who they are be who they are
 
 
can live who they are be who they are
and that they're accepted and celebrated
 
 
and that they're accepted and celebrated
 
 
and that they're accepted and celebrated
for that not just accept it but
 
 
for that not just accept it but
 
 
for that not just accept it but
celebrate it for being who they are
 
 
celebrate it for being who they are
 
 
celebrate it for being who they are
when people see
 
 
when people see
 
 
when people see
an athlete who was in the 400s as a male
 
 
an athlete who was in the 400s as a male
 
 
an athlete who was in the 400s as a male
swimmer
 
 
swimmer
 
 
swimmer
transition
 
 
transition
 
 
transition
into
 
 
into
 
 
into
a
 
 
a
 
 
a
uh a lady swimmer and then win the ncaa
 
 
uh a lady swimmer and then win the ncaa
 
 
uh a lady swimmer and then win the ncaa
championship
 
 
championship
 
 
championship
they right away go that's not fair
 
 
they right away go that's not fair
 
 
they right away go that's not fair
they say a year of hormone therapy or
 
 
they say a year of hormone therapy or
 
 
they say a year of hormone therapy or
whatever it is can't undo
 
 
whatever it is can't undo
 
 
whatever it is can't undo
the scientific advantage that you might
 
 
the scientific advantage that you might
 
 
the scientific advantage that you might
have through puberty and
 
 
have through puberty and
 
 
have through puberty and
that to me then
 
 
that to me then
 
 
that to me then
it comes back it to me it others
 
 
it comes back it to me it others
 
 
it comes back it to me it others
sometimes the our brothers and sisters
 
 
sometimes the our brothers and sisters
 
 
sometimes the our brothers and sisters
in the trans community because
 
 
in the trans community because
 
 
in the trans community because
then it starts to look like hey these
 
 
then it starts to look like hey these
 
 
then it starts to look like hey these
are people americans who only care about
 
 
are people americans who only care about
 
 
are people americans who only care about
their agenda and don't really care about
 
 
their agenda and don't really care about
 
 
their agenda and don't really care about
the fairness of institutions that have
 
 
the fairness of institutions that have
 
 
the fairness of institutions that have
been around for a long time and it
 
 
been around for a long time and it
 
 
been around for a long time and it
sometimes fuels it and if we don't talk
 
 
sometimes fuels it and if we don't talk
 
 
sometimes fuels it and if we don't talk
about it then we can't get into the
 
 
about it then we can't get into the
 
 
about it then we can't get into the
nuance of how we go about this and how
 
 
nuance of how we go about this and how
 
 
nuance of how we go about this and how
we go about this inclusion and bring
 
 
we go about this inclusion and bring
 
 
we go about this inclusion and bring
everybody in
 
 
everybody in
 
 
everybody in
the reason why i say that is like
 
 
the reason why i say that is like
 
 
the reason why i say that is like
for someone it says it's not fair for
 
 
for someone it says it's not fair for
 
 
for someone it says it's not fair for
someone that says
 
 
someone that says
 
 
someone that says
that shouldn't happen for some of the
 
 
that shouldn't happen for some of the
 
 
that shouldn't happen for some of the
female athletes like martina navratiloni
 
 
female athletes like martina navratiloni
 
 
female athletes like martina navratiloni
uh like martina navratilova diana nyad
 
 
uh like martina navratilova diana nyad
 
 
uh like martina navratilova diana nyad
that say that's not fair that should not
 
 
that say that's not fair that should not
 
 
that say that's not fair that should not
be happening
 
 
be happening
 
 
be happening
are they right or wrong
 
 
are they right or wrong
 
 
are they right or wrong
again i think that is a convoluted
 
 
again i think that is a convoluted
 
 
again i think that is a convoluted
question i think
 
 
question i think
 
 
question i think
everyone's bodies are different right so
 
 
everyone's bodies are different right so
 
 
everyone's bodies are different right so
let's be clear prior to my medical
 
 
let's be clear prior to my medical
 
 
let's be clear prior to my medical
transition and hormone replacement
 
 
transition and hormone replacement
 
 
transition and hormone replacement
therapy
 
 
therapy
 
 
therapy
i wasn't a good athlete then
 
 
i wasn't a good athlete then
 
 
i wasn't a good athlete then
and i'm not a good athlete now
 
 
and i'm not a good athlete now
 
 
and i'm not a good athlete now
um so i i think that we have to consider
 
 
um so i i think that we have to consider
 
 
um so i i think that we have to consider
that what makes someone elite is it's
 
 
that what makes someone elite is it's
 
 
that what makes someone elite is it's
different it's not always the same for
 
 
different it's not always the same for
 
 
different it's not always the same for
each person now i will say i i i
 
 
each person now i will say i i i
 
 
each person now i will say i i i
completely understand why folks will
 
 
completely understand why folks will
 
 
completely understand why folks will
look at this and kind of side eye like
 
 
look at this and kind of side eye like
 
 
look at this and kind of side eye like
what is going on because there has been
 
 
what is going on because there has been
 
 
what is going on because there has been
some murkiness with what's been
 
 
some murkiness with what's been
 
 
some murkiness with what's been
considered the standards um right around
 
 
considered the standards um right around
 
 
considered the standards um right around
hormone levels right like like notably
 
 
hormone levels right like like notably
 
 
hormone levels right like like notably
some of those standards have shifted for
 
 
some of those standards have shifted for
 
 
some of those standards have shifted for
different um athletic bodies versus
 
 
different um athletic bodies versus
 
 
different um athletic bodies versus
others that was a big thing obviously
 
 
others that was a big thing obviously
 
 
others that was a big thing obviously
with the ncaa was like they just they
 
 
with the ncaa was like they just they
 
 
with the ncaa was like they just they
opted out of shifting the rules for leah
 
 
opted out of shifting the rules for leah
 
 
opted out of shifting the rules for leah
thomas to compete they planted on it
 
 
thomas to compete they planted on it
 
 
thomas to compete they planted on it
right because they were already in the
 
 
right because they were already in the
 
 
right because they were already in the
middle of the season and that would have
 
 
middle of the season and that would have
 
 
middle of the season and that would have
been unfair right so i think obviously
 
 
been unfair right so i think obviously
 
 
been unfair right so i think obviously
on either side they would have gotten a
 
 
on either side they would have gotten a
 
 
on either side they would have gotten a
backlash i think what we have to to
 
 
backlash i think what we have to to
 
 
backlash i think what we have to to
consider
 
 
consider
 
 
consider
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
this is a particular case leah thomas is
 
 
this is a particular case leah thomas is
 
 
this is a particular case leah thomas is
a particular person
 
 
a particular person
 
 
a particular person
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
i'm not a scientist i'm not gonna
 
 
i'm not a scientist i'm not gonna
 
 
i'm not a scientist i'm not gonna
profess to be a scientist and know you
 
 
profess to be a scientist and know you
 
 
profess to be a scientist and know you
know the ins and outs of what their
 
 
know the ins and outs of what their
 
 
know the ins and outs of what their
barometers or things are but i will say
 
 
barometers or things are but i will say
 
 
barometers or things are but i will say
with hormone replacement therapy a lot
 
 
with hormone replacement therapy a lot
 
 
with hormone replacement therapy a lot
of the general public discounts the kind
 
 
of the general public discounts the kind
 
 
of the general public discounts the kind
of changes that happen
 
 
of changes that happen
 
 
of changes that happen
um physically and medically for a trans
 
 
um physically and medically for a trans
 
 
um physically and medically for a trans
person because i just started crossfit
 
 
person because i just started crossfit
 
 
person because i just started crossfit
like a year ago and i will tell you even
 
 
like a year ago and i will tell you even
 
 
like a year ago and i will tell you even
though i'm also older than i was
 
 
though i'm also older than i was
 
 
though i'm also older than i was
obviously at the start of my medical
 
 
obviously at the start of my medical
 
 
obviously at the start of my medical
transition
 
 
transition
 
 
transition
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
i am not as strong as i once was
 
 
i am not as strong as i once was
 
 
i am not as strong as i once was
i cannot carry as much as i used to be
 
 
i cannot carry as much as i used to be
 
 
i cannot carry as much as i used to be
able to carry but i will say i'm not
 
 
able to carry but i will say i'm not
 
 
able to carry but i will say i'm not
saying that that's the experience for
 
 
saying that that's the experience for
 
 
saying that that's the experience for
every trans person that is just my
 
 
every trans person that is just my
 
 
every trans person that is just my
personal experience
 
 
 
 
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
you know it in hearing your response to
 
 
you know it in hearing your response to
 
 
you know it in hearing your response to
to what van the van's question was it
 
 
to what van the van's question was it
 
 
to what van the van's question was it
does seem like you're saying things are
 
 
does seem like you're saying things are
 
 
does seem like you're saying things are
kind of on a case by case or that this
 
 
kind of on a case by case or that this
 
 
kind of on a case by case or that this
is a particular case but we are seeing
 
 
is a particular case but we are seeing
 
 
is a particular case but we are seeing
this being addressed even not just on
 
 
this being addressed even not just on
 
 
this being addressed even not just on
the in in the naac and naacp
 
 
the in in the naac and naacp
 
 
the in in the naac and naacp
the um ncaa but also
 
 
the um ncaa but also
 
 
the um ncaa but also
in you know if people are starting to
 
 
in you know if people are starting to
 
 
in you know if people are starting to
have these conversations in high school
 
 
have these conversations in high school
 
 
have these conversations in high school
and junior high when it comes to sports
 
 
and junior high when it comes to sports
 
 
and junior high when it comes to sports
and so i'm wondering and i don't even
 
 
and so i'm wondering and i don't even
 
 
and so i'm wondering and i don't even
know if you have this answer but what
 
 
know if you have this answer but what
 
 
know if you have this answer but what
should be done because it doesn't seem
 
 
should be done because it doesn't seem
 
 
should be done because it doesn't seem
like applying a blanket rule
 
 
like applying a blanket rule
 
 
like applying a blanket rule
is going to work if everything is done
 
 
is going to work if everything is done
 
 
is going to work if everything is done
on a case-by-case basis or if each case
 
 
on a case-by-case basis or if each case
 
 
on a case-by-case basis or if each case
is different you know um would it be
 
 
is different you know um would it be
 
 
is different you know um would it be
offensive if there were certain
 
 
offensive if there were certain
 
 
offensive if there were certain
categories and and like i i think
 
 
categories and and like i i think
 
 
categories and and like i i think
martina was the one who said you know
 
 
martina was the one who said you know
 
 
martina was the one who said you know
there should be a category for
 
 
there should be a category for
 
 
there should be a category for
biological females and then an open
 
 
biological females and then an open
 
 
biological females and then an open
category for everyone else like would
 
 
category for everyone else like would
 
 
category for everyone else like would
that be offensive and and like i i don't
 
 
that be offensive and and like i i don't
 
 
that be offensive and and like i i don't
know if that sounds ignorant to ask that
 
 
know if that sounds ignorant to ask that
 
 
know if that sounds ignorant to ask that
but i think that's that's something that
 
 
but i think that's that's something that
 
 
but i think that's that's something that
people might be wondering
 
 
people might be wondering
 
 
people might be wondering
yeah well i you know i'll just offer you
 
 
yeah well i you know i'll just offer you
 
 
yeah well i you know i'll just offer you
know the terminology biological female
 
 
know the terminology biological female
 
 
know the terminology biological female
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
is one that we consider to be outdated
 
 
is one that we consider to be outdated
 
 
is one that we consider to be outdated
now right because we know it takes a lot
 
 
now right because we know it takes a lot
 
 
now right because we know it takes a lot
of different factors to be considered
 
 
of different factors to be considered
 
 
of different factors to be considered
female are we saying hormonal
 
 
female are we saying hormonal
 
 
female are we saying hormonal
uh levels are we saying chromosomal
 
 
uh levels are we saying chromosomal
 
 
uh levels are we saying chromosomal
levels right and there was actually a
 
 
levels right and there was actually a
 
 
levels right and there was actually a
high profile case a few years ago with a
 
 
high profile case a few years ago with a
 
 
high profile case a few years ago with a
south africa runner named yes
 
 
south africa runner named yes
 
 
south africa runner named yes
who was you know
 
 
who was you know
 
 
who was you know
cisgender woman you know a stein female
 
 
cisgender woman you know a stein female
 
 
cisgender woman you know a stein female
at birth and and had been competing and
 
 
at birth and and had been competing and
 
 
at birth and and had been competing and
they said that her hormonal levels
 
 
they said that her hormonal levels
 
 
they said that her hormonal levels
particularly around testosterone were
 
 
particularly around testosterone were
 
 
particularly around testosterone were
too high right and so what does that
 
 
too high right and so what does that
 
 
too high right and so what does that
mean for them um and i i want to know
 
 
mean for them um and i i want to know
 
 
mean for them um and i i want to know
and i'm coming back around to your
 
 
and i'm coming back around to your
 
 
and i'm coming back around to your
question i promise but i want to note
 
 
question i promise but i want to note
 
 
question i promise but i want to note
also that
 
 
also that
 
 
also that
i think we also have to look at the ways
 
 
i think we also have to look at the ways
 
 
i think we also have to look at the ways
that even black women who are not trans
 
 
that even black women who are not trans
 
 
that even black women who are not trans
have been treated within the sports
 
 
have been treated within the sports
 
 
have been treated within the sports
world right a lot of this conversation
 
 
world right a lot of this conversation
 
 
world right a lot of this conversation
that's about fear
 
 
that's about fear
 
 
that's about fear
about them dominating the sports i mean
 
 
about them dominating the sports i mean
 
 
about them dominating the sports i mean
some of those headlines are ripped right
 
 
some of those headlines are ripped right
 
 
some of those headlines are ripped right
out of what for instance serena and
 
 
out of what for instance serena and
 
 
out of what for instance serena and
venus went through what 20 or so years
 
 
venus went through what 20 or so years
 
 
venus went through what 20 or so years
ago
 
 
ago
 
 
ago
right this idea that
 
 
right this idea that
 
 
right this idea that
you know they were so
 
 
you know they were so
 
 
you know they were so
unnaturally super human whatever they
 
 
unnaturally super human whatever they
 
 
unnaturally super human whatever they
were dominating against these little
 
 
were dominating against these little
 
 
were dominating against these little
white women and i also think
 
 
white women and i also think
 
 
white women and i also think
that we have to be very clear that
 
 
that we have to be very clear that
 
 
that we have to be very clear that
there's a reason why overwhelmingly the
 
 
there's a reason why overwhelmingly the
 
 
there's a reason why overwhelmingly the
women who are the most transphobic
 
 
women who are the most transphobic
 
 
women who are the most transphobic
against trans women athletes tend to be
 
 
against trans women athletes tend to be
 
 
against trans women athletes tend to be
privileged white women
 
 
privileged white women
 
 
privileged white women
because for me as a black trans woman
 
 
because for me as a black trans woman
 
 
because for me as a black trans woman
i'm looking at the spectrum of hate
 
 
i'm looking at the spectrum of hate
 
 
i'm looking at the spectrum of hate
and the hate against trans women and
 
 
and the hate against trans women and
 
 
and the hate against trans women and
trans people and and just that kind of
 
 
trans people and and just that kind of
 
 
trans people and and just that kind of
particular misogyny and phobia that
 
 
particular misogyny and phobia that
 
 
particular misogyny and phobia that
trans people face is completely
 
 
trans people face is completely
 
 
trans people face is completely
connected to white supremacy because
 
 
connected to white supremacy because
 
 
connected to white supremacy because
there's this there's a certain amount of
 
 
there's this there's a certain amount of
 
 
there's this there's a certain amount of
entitlement there and so any anyone that
 
 
entitlement there and so any anyone that
 
 
entitlement there and so any anyone that
comes in and that kind of
 
 
comes in and that kind of
 
 
comes in and that kind of
you know
 
 
you know
 
 
you know
mixes up the conversation a little bit
 
 
mixes up the conversation a little bit
 
 
mixes up the conversation a little bit
more is seen as a threat and i think
 
 
more is seen as a threat and i think
 
 
more is seen as a threat and i think
that that is a lot a lot of where some
 
 
that that is a lot a lot of where some
 
 
that that is a lot a lot of where some
of this fear is coming from
 
 
of this fear is coming from
 
 
of this fear is coming from
going back to the youth
 
 
going back to the youth
 
 
going back to the youth
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
that answer
 
 
that answer
 
 
that answer
again i think it depends on who you talk
 
 
again i think it depends on who you talk
 
 
again i think it depends on who you talk
to i had a conversation with some trans
 
 
to i had a conversation with some trans
 
 
to i had a conversation with some trans
young trans athletes um like two weeks
 
 
young trans athletes um like two weeks
 
 
young trans athletes um like two weeks
ago they're amazing i have like this
 
 
ago they're amazing i have like this
 
 
ago they're amazing i have like this
town hall that's coming out with them um
 
 
town hall that's coming out with them um
 
 
town hall that's coming out with them um
but you know there were some who were
 
 
but you know there were some who were
 
 
but you know there were some who were
saying you know i i as a trans woman
 
 
saying you know i i as a trans woman
 
 
saying you know i i as a trans woman
really want to be able to play
 
 
really want to be able to play
 
 
really want to be able to play
with other girls right or i as a trans
 
 
with other girls right or i as a trans
 
 
with other girls right or i as a trans
boy want to really be able to play with
 
 
boy want to really be able to play with
 
 
boy want to really be able to play with
other boys but
 
 
other boys but
 
 
other boys but
they felt so ostracized in some of those
 
 
they felt so ostracized in some of those
 
 
they felt so ostracized in some of those
instances that they really didn't have
 
 
instances that they really didn't have
 
 
instances that they really didn't have
any other choice and then there was
 
 
any other choice and then there was
 
 
any other choice and then there was
another young trans person that was like
 
 
another young trans person that was like
 
 
another young trans person that was like
i i had to find sports that were more
 
 
i i had to find sports that were more
 
 
i i had to find sports that were more
gender neutral
 
 
gender neutral
 
 
gender neutral
so that i could feel comfortable and
 
 
so that i could feel comfortable and
 
 
so that i could feel comfortable and
still be able to
 
 
still be able to
 
 
still be able to
do whatever i was passionate about so i
 
 
do whatever i was passionate about so i
 
 
do whatever i was passionate about so i
think i think the answer varies and and
 
 
think i think the answer varies and and
 
 
think i think the answer varies and and
i i hate that i can't give you a
 
 
i i hate that i can't give you a
 
 
i i hate that i can't give you a
definitive one because i i do think that
 
 
definitive one because i i do think that
 
 
definitive one because i i do think that
it varies across the board
 
 
it varies across the board
 
 
it varies across the board
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
let's say you don't think it's fair
 
 
let's say you don't think it's fair
 
 
let's say you don't think it's fair
because i look at the leah thomas case
 
 
because i look at the leah thomas case
 
 
because i look at the leah thomas case
and i just like intellectually it just
 
 
and i just like intellectually it just
 
 
and i just like intellectually it just
doesn't seem fair does that mean that
 
 
doesn't seem fair does that mean that
 
 
doesn't seem fair does that mean that
you're transphobic would you say that
 
 
you're transphobic would you say that
 
 
you're transphobic would you say that
someone that looks at that goes well
 
 
someone that looks at that goes well
 
 
someone that looks at that goes well
that's not right
 
 
that's not right
 
 
that's not right
like we need to search and when i say
 
 
like we need to search and when i say
 
 
like we need to search and when i say
that's not right i mean that particular
 
 
that's not right i mean that particular
 
 
that's not right i mean that particular
case
 
 
case
 
 
case
meaning
 
 
meaning
 
 
meaning
i don't think that the ncaa is devoting
 
 
i don't think that the ncaa is devoting
 
 
i don't think that the ncaa is devoting
enough time to doing the scientific work
 
 
enough time to doing the scientific work
 
 
enough time to doing the scientific work
to figure out
 
 
to figure out
 
 
to figure out
what exactly the threshold should be
 
 
what exactly the threshold should be
 
 
what exactly the threshold should be
here but in that case going from there
 
 
here but in that case going from there
 
 
here but in that case going from there
to number one it doesn't seem fair does
 
 
to number one it doesn't seem fair does
 
 
to number one it doesn't seem fair does
that make you transphobic if you feel
 
 
that make you transphobic if you feel
 
 
that make you transphobic if you feel
that way
 
 
 
 
i feel like i'm always like inserting
 
 
i feel like i'm always like inserting
 
 
i feel like i'm always like inserting
nuance and i and and
 
 
 
 
like i don't know that's an answer but
 
 
like i don't know that's an answer but
 
 
like i don't know that's an answer but
right most people are transphobic man
 
 
right most people are transphobic man
 
 
right most people are transphobic man
like let's be real
 
 
like let's be real
 
 
like let's be real
let's be
 
 
let's be
 
 
let's be
real i can't tell you how many
 
 
real i can't tell you how many
 
 
real i can't tell you how many
conversations i've had with people
 
 
conversations i've had with people
 
 
conversations i've had with people
just like out and about right whether it
 
 
just like out and about right whether it
 
 
just like out and about right whether it
was like you know an uber driver or it
 
 
was like you know an uber driver or it
 
 
was like you know an uber driver or it
was some guy that like hit on me on the
 
 
was some guy that like hit on me on the
 
 
was some guy that like hit on me on the
street or
 
 
street or
 
 
street or
it was like someone at a you know at a
 
 
it was like someone at a you know at a
 
 
it was like someone at a you know at a
church or whatever
 
 
church or whatever
 
 
church or whatever
who
 
 
who
 
 
who
looked at me differently and treated me
 
 
looked at me differently and treated me
 
 
looked at me differently and treated me
completely differently once they learned
 
 
completely differently once they learned
 
 
completely differently once they learned
that i was trans or once i told them
 
 
that i was trans or once i told them
 
 
that i was trans or once i told them
that i was trans
 
 
that i was trans
 
 
that i was trans
and and we see this time and time again
 
 
and and we see this time and time again
 
 
and and we see this time and time again
on social media especially
 
 
on social media especially
 
 
on social media especially
if you're on the black side of social
 
 
if you're on the black side of social
 
 
if you're on the black side of social
media i mean how many times do we say do
 
 
media i mean how many times do we say do
 
 
media i mean how many times do we say do
we hear people say or read people say
 
 
we hear people say or read people say
 
 
we hear people say or read people say
here's that agenda again they coming
 
 
here's that agenda again they coming
 
 
here's that agenda again they coming
after us they're coming after the black
 
 
after us they're coming after the black
 
 
after us they're coming after the black
family
 
 
 
 
they're all trying to feminize us right
 
 
they're all trying to feminize us right
 
 
they're all trying to feminize us right
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
i think a lot of those ignorant ideas
 
 
i think a lot of those ignorant ideas
 
 
i think a lot of those ignorant ideas
feed into why someone would be so quick
 
 
feed into why someone would be so quick
 
 
feed into why someone would be so quick
to say well obviously leah thomas is
 
 
to say well obviously leah thomas is
 
 
to say well obviously leah thomas is
some kind of op
 
 
some kind of op
 
 
some kind of op
because
 
 
because
 
 
because
because i already don't like trans
 
 
because i already don't like trans
 
 
because i already don't like trans
people right i mean
 
 
people right i mean
 
 
people right i mean
i think that there's a lot of unlearning
 
 
i think that there's a lot of unlearning
 
 
i think that there's a lot of unlearning
which i love rachel you you talk about
 
 
which i love rachel you you talk about
 
 
which i love rachel you you talk about
this so much the unlearning that we have
 
 
this so much the unlearning that we have
 
 
this so much the unlearning that we have
to do
 
 
to do
 
 
to do
around
 
 
around
 
 
around
the things that's been indoctrinated in
 
 
the things that's been indoctrinated in
 
 
the things that's been indoctrinated in
us that we didn't even know was a
 
 
us that we didn't even know was a
 
 
us that we didn't even know was a
problem i mean
 
 
problem i mean
 
 
problem i mean
i grew up in the 90s right i mean i grew
 
 
i grew up in the 90s right i mean i grew
 
 
i grew up in the 90s right i mean i grew
up you know
 
 
up you know
 
 
up you know
in georgia
 
 
in georgia
 
 
in georgia
in a very catholic family
 
 
in a very catholic family
 
 
in a very catholic family
you know there was nothing telling me
 
 
you know there was nothing telling me
 
 
you know there was nothing telling me
really until i got to college that oh
 
 
really until i got to college that oh
 
 
really until i got to college that oh
people can have different gender
 
 
people can have different gender
 
 
people can have different gender
experiences oh people can be attracted
 
 
experiences oh people can be attracted
 
 
experiences oh people can be attracted
to different types of people
 
 
to different types of people
 
 
to different types of people
i didn't get any of that education right
 
 
i didn't get any of that education right
 
 
i didn't get any of that education right
like those i learned who i was
 
 
like those i learned who i was
 
 
like those i learned who i was
unfortunately
 
 
unfortunately
 
 
unfortunately
from
 
 
from
 
 
from
being called a [ __ ] first right or
 
 
being called a [ __ ] first right or
 
 
being called a [ __ ] first right or
being told i was just like a girl
 
 
being told i was just like a girl
 
 
being told i was just like a girl
and i think for me and a lot of other
 
 
and i think for me and a lot of other
 
 
and i think for me and a lot of other
older trans folks who've been through
 
 
older trans folks who've been through
 
 
older trans folks who've been through
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
for us it's about
 
 
for us it's about
 
 
for us it's about
us having more of these conversations so
 
 
us having more of these conversations so
 
 
us having more of these conversations so
that the next generation of folks gen z
 
 
that the next generation of folks gen z
 
 
that the next generation of folks gen z
is identifying more as lgbtq than any
 
 
is identifying more as lgbtq than any
 
 
is identifying more as lgbtq than any
previous generation
 
 
previous generation
 
 
previous generation
that they don't have to deal with the
 
 
that they don't have to deal with the
 
 
that they don't have to deal with the
same kind of hate that we dealt with
 
 
same kind of hate that we dealt with
 
 
same kind of hate that we dealt with
along the way
 
 
along the way
 
 
along the way
amazing
 
 
amazing
 
 
amazing
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
raquel willis you have a debut memoir
 
 
raquel willis you have a debut memoir
 
 
raquel willis you have a debut memoir
coming out
 
 
coming out
 
 
coming out
look it's interesting in the way this is
 
 
look it's interesting in the way this is
 
 
look it's interesting in the way this is
written it says raquel is currently
 
 
written it says raquel is currently
 
 
written it says raquel is currently
working on her debut memoir now listen
 
 
working on her debut memoir now listen
 
 
working on her debut memoir now listen
the reason why i say that's interesting
 
 
the reason why i say that's interesting
 
 
the reason why i say that's interesting
is because
 
 
is because
 
 
is because
can you come back with a sequel from a
 
 
can you come back with a sequel from a
 
 
can you come back with a sequel from a
memoir
 
 
memoir
 
 
memoir
can you do both is that part two i think
 
 
can you do both is that part two i think
 
 
can you do both is that part two i think
you're gonna have a part two i didn't
 
 
you're gonna have a part two i didn't
 
 
you're gonna have a part two i didn't
know that like you could have multiple
 
 
know that like you could have multiple
 
 
know that like you could have multiple
memoirs that you could mmm
 
 
memoirs that you could mmm
 
 
memoirs that you could mmm
that you could have multiplied no okay
 
 
that you could have multiplied no okay
 
 
that you could have multiplied no okay
you so you know the funny thing is a lot
 
 
you so you know the funny thing is a lot
 
 
you so you know the funny thing is a lot
of people conflate an autobiography
 
 
of people conflate an autobiography
 
 
of people conflate an autobiography
which is usually a person's story from
 
 
which is usually a person's story from
 
 
which is usually a person's story from
birth until maybe death or wherever they
 
 
birth until maybe death or wherever they
 
 
birth until maybe death or wherever they
are in their life with a memoir that
 
 
are in their life with a memoir that
 
 
are in their life with a memoir that
typically is capturing a particular
 
 
typically is capturing a particular
 
 
typically is capturing a particular
moment in their life or time in their
 
 
moment in their life or time in their
 
 
moment in their life or time in their
life so this memoir is only capturing
 
 
life so this memoir is only capturing
 
 
life so this memoir is only capturing
really the last
 
 
really the last
 
 
really the last
really from like 2013 to 2020.
 
 
really from like 2013 to 2020.
 
 
really from like 2013 to 2020.
oh okay so it's not capturing my whole
 
 
oh okay so it's not capturing my whole
 
 
oh okay so it's not capturing my whole
life
 
 
life
 
 
life
so are you going to play so it's a
 
 
so are you going to play so it's a
 
 
so are you going to play so it's a
prequel this coming she could do a
 
 
prequel this coming she could do a
 
 
prequel this coming she could do a
prequel she's kind of okay
 
 
prequel she's kind of okay
 
 
prequel she's kind of okay
i imagine there being another memoir
 
 
i imagine there being another memoir
 
 
i imagine there being another memoir
that's like my coming of identity i did
 
 
that's like my coming of identity i did
 
 
that's like my coming of identity i did
i initially started the project
 
 
i initially started the project
 
 
i initially started the project
wanting to tell kind of a
 
 
wanting to tell kind of a
 
 
wanting to tell kind of a
more typical um coming of identity story
 
 
more typical um coming of identity story
 
 
more typical um coming of identity story
like i transitioned and
 
 
like i transitioned and
 
 
like i transitioned and
and i still think that there's a place
 
 
and i still think that there's a place
 
 
and i still think that there's a place
for that but after george floyd happened
 
 
for that but after george floyd happened
 
 
for that but after george floyd happened
um and unfortunately was murdered and
 
 
um and unfortunately was murdered and
 
 
um and unfortunately was murdered and
there was this social justice awakening
 
 
there was this social justice awakening
 
 
there was this social justice awakening
i was like oh you know the narrative
 
 
i was like oh you know the narrative
 
 
i was like oh you know the narrative
that we haven't really discussed is like
 
 
that we haven't really discussed is like
 
 
that we haven't really discussed is like
what has it been like for a black trans
 
 
what has it been like for a black trans
 
 
what has it been like for a black trans
woman who is an activist to be a part of
 
 
woman who is an activist to be a part of
 
 
woman who is an activist to be a part of
all of these different movements
 
 
all of these different movements
 
 
all of these different movements
over
 
 
over
 
 
over
you know this era of like black lives
 
 
you know this era of like black lives
 
 
you know this era of like black lives
matter or trans visibility
 
 
matter or trans visibility
 
 
matter or trans visibility
i don't know anyone else who has kind of
 
 
i don't know anyone else who has kind of
 
 
i don't know anyone else who has kind of
written about that and i think that that
 
 
written about that and i think that that
 
 
written about that and i think that that
would seem more interesting
 
 
would seem more interesting
 
 
would seem more interesting
very
 
 
very
 
 
very
uh yeah that actually left me with one
 
 
uh yeah that actually left me with one
 
 
uh yeah that actually left me with one
more question
 
 
more question
 
 
more question
okay
 
 
 
 
one more question you make me nervous
 
 
one more question you make me nervous
 
 
one more question you make me nervous
man i'm
 
 
man i'm
 
 
man i'm
sorry it left me with one more question
 
 
sorry it left me with one more question
 
 
sorry it left me with one more question
this is the question
 
 
this is the question
 
 
this is the question
okay
 
 
okay
 
 
okay
you just mentioned george floyd
 
 
you just mentioned george floyd
 
 
you just mentioned george floyd
you just mentioned the fact that you've
 
 
you just mentioned the fact that you've
 
 
you just mentioned the fact that you've
showed up
 
 
showed up
 
 
showed up
uh in situations where black people have
 
 
uh in situations where black people have
 
 
uh in situations where black people have
been in peril in order to
 
 
been in peril in order to
 
 
been in peril in order to
force the establishment to change the
 
 
force the establishment to change the
 
 
force the establishment to change the
status quo
 
 
status quo
 
 
status quo
do you feel like
 
 
do you feel like
 
 
do you feel like
black people show up for your plight in
 
 
black people show up for your plight in
 
 
black people show up for your plight in
that same way
 
 
 
 
um and i'm not meaning to generalize no
 
 
um and i'm not meaning to generalize no
 
 
um and i'm not meaning to generalize no
i'm not going to generalize do you
 
 
i'm not going to generalize do you
 
 
i'm not going to generalize do you
you've shown up
 
 
you've shown up
 
 
you've shown up
for george floyd do you feel like the
 
 
for george floyd do you feel like the
 
 
for george floyd do you feel like the
community by and large shows up for you
 
 
community by and large shows up for you
 
 
community by and large shows up for you
well you know
 
 
well you know
 
 
well you know
i think even baked in into your question
 
 
i think even baked in into your question
 
 
i think even baked in into your question
i know you don't mean this this way but
 
 
i know you don't mean this this way but
 
 
i know you don't mean this this way but
even baked into your questions that you
 
 
even baked into your questions that you
 
 
even baked into your questions that you
know as a black trans woman i'm outside
 
 
know as a black trans woman i'm outside
 
 
know as a black trans woman i'm outside
of the black community
 
 
of the black community
 
 
of the black community
right and i think that that is where a
 
 
right and i think that that is where a
 
 
right and i think that that is where a
lot of our people come from
 
 
lot of our people come from
 
 
lot of our people come from
you know they don't inherently think of
 
 
you know they don't inherently think of
 
 
you know they don't inherently think of
black lgbtq people as
 
 
black lgbtq people as
 
 
black lgbtq people as
a part of the black community which is a
 
 
a part of the black community which is a
 
 
a part of the black community which is a
problem
 
 
problem
 
 
problem
um i i think that when i consider the
 
 
um i i think that when i consider the
 
 
um i i think that when i consider the
black community
 
 
black community
 
 
black community
i i like to just lay down the context i
 
 
i i like to just lay down the context i
 
 
i i like to just lay down the context i
don't think that the black community is
 
 
don't think that the black community is
 
 
don't think that the black community is
any more homophobic or transphobic than
 
 
any more homophobic or transphobic than
 
 
any more homophobic or transphobic than
white people let's get clear because
 
 
white people let's get clear because
 
 
white people let's get clear because
overwhelmingly the people trying to pass
 
 
overwhelmingly the people trying to pass
 
 
overwhelmingly the people trying to pass
anti-trans or anti-lgbtq
 
 
anti-trans or anti-lgbtq
 
 
anti-trans or anti-lgbtq
legislation writ large are white people
 
 
legislation writ large are white people
 
 
legislation writ large are white people
black people got time to
 
 
black people got time to
 
 
black people got time to
literally organize in that way that
 
 
literally organize in that way that
 
 
literally organize in that way that
right that white people tend to
 
 
right that white people tend to
 
 
right that white people tend to
so that is a thing but i will say
 
 
so that is a thing but i will say
 
 
so that is a thing but i will say
i think that our community has
 
 
i think that our community has
 
 
i think that our community has
particular hang ups around
 
 
particular hang ups around
 
 
particular hang ups around
gender and identity that are historic
 
 
gender and identity that are historic
 
 
gender and identity that are historic
you know i think
 
 
you know i think
 
 
you know i think
black men
 
 
black men
 
 
black men
and black masculinity i think that there
 
 
and black masculinity i think that there
 
 
and black masculinity i think that there
is a truth that it that they have been
 
 
is a truth that it that they have been
 
 
is a truth that it that they have been
demonized
 
 
demonized
 
 
demonized
and i don't think you would find any
 
 
and i don't think you would find any
 
 
and i don't think you would find any
black feminist black woman black queer
 
 
black feminist black woman black queer
 
 
black feminist black woman black queer
person
 
 
person
 
 
person
or trans person who would ignore that
 
 
or trans person who would ignore that
 
 
or trans person who would ignore that
fact
 
 
fact
 
 
fact
but i will say we can't act as if
 
 
but i will say we can't act as if
 
 
but i will say we can't act as if
patriarchy is not alive and well within
 
 
patriarchy is not alive and well within
 
 
patriarchy is not alive and well within
our community
 
 
our community
 
 
our community
and so there's a reason why
 
 
and so there's a reason why
 
 
and so there's a reason why
many more people would organize around a
 
 
many more people would organize around a
 
 
many more people would organize around a
george floyd
 
 
george floyd
 
 
george floyd
than a briana taylor yes
 
 
than a briana taylor yes
 
 
than a briana taylor yes
eventually brianna taylor's story got
 
 
eventually brianna taylor's story got
 
 
eventually brianna taylor's story got
out there
 
 
out there
 
 
out there
but
 
 
but
 
 
but
it took a little minute it was not given
 
 
it took a little minute it was not given
 
 
it took a little minute it was not given
the same care and attention that george
 
 
the same care and attention that george
 
 
the same care and attention that george
floyd got and and george floyd was
 
 
floyd got and and george floyd was
 
 
floyd got and and george floyd was
killed after brianna taylor so let's
 
 
killed after brianna taylor so let's
 
 
killed after brianna taylor so let's
also let's also remember that
 
 
also let's also remember that
 
 
also let's also remember that
not to mention i
 
 
not to mention i
 
 
not to mention i
this epidemic of violence that black
 
 
this epidemic of violence that black
 
 
this epidemic of violence that black
trans people face and i know that that
 
 
trans people face and i know that that
 
 
trans people face and i know that that
will sound alarmist and sensational to a
 
 
will sound alarmist and sensational to a
 
 
will sound alarmist and sensational to a
lot of people who are not privy to this
 
 
lot of people who are not privy to this
 
 
lot of people who are not privy to this
information but
 
 
information but
 
 
information but
the the trans folks who are most
 
 
the the trans folks who are most
 
 
the the trans folks who are most
murdered tend to be black trans women
 
 
murdered tend to be black trans women
 
 
murdered tend to be black trans women
latina trans women right
 
 
latina trans women right
 
 
latina trans women right
and overwhelmingly it is at the hands of
 
 
and overwhelmingly it is at the hands of
 
 
and overwhelmingly it is at the hands of
black
 
 
black
 
 
black
men
 
 
men
 
 
men
you know black sis straight men whatever
 
 
you know black sis straight men whatever
 
 
you know black sis straight men whatever
whatever
 
 
whatever
 
 
whatever
and i do think that part of the the
 
 
and i do think that part of the the
 
 
and i do think that part of the the
issue there is
 
 
 
 
we need to be giving more spaces for
 
 
we need to be giving more spaces for
 
 
we need to be giving more spaces for
healing
 
 
healing
 
 
healing
to all black people and so that means
 
 
to all black people and so that means
 
 
to all black people and so that means
black women need more spaces to heal
 
 
black women need more spaces to heal
 
 
black women need more spaces to heal
that also means black men need more
 
 
that also means black men need more
 
 
that also means black men need more
spaces to heal
 
 
spaces to heal
 
 
spaces to heal
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
find a healthier masculinity we talk a
 
 
find a healthier masculinity we talk a
 
 
find a healthier masculinity we talk a
lot about toxic masculinity but what is
 
 
lot about toxic masculinity but what is
 
 
lot about toxic masculinity but what is
the healthier masculinity that lets
 
 
the healthier masculinity that lets
 
 
the healthier masculinity that lets
black men know oh
 
 
black men know oh
 
 
black men know oh
they can experience fear without having
 
 
they can experience fear without having
 
 
they can experience fear without having
to
 
 
to
 
 
to
get angry and violent about it they can
 
 
get angry and violent about it they can
 
 
get angry and violent about it they can
experience uncertainty without having to
 
 
experience uncertainty without having to
 
 
experience uncertainty without having to
get angry and violent about it they can
 
 
get angry and violent about it they can
 
 
get angry and violent about it they can
experience joy
 
 
experience joy
 
 
experience joy
right and have a full range of human
 
 
right and have a full range of human
 
 
right and have a full range of human
emotions
 
 
emotions
 
 
emotions
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
and not be violent about it and also
 
 
and not be violent about it and also
 
 
and not be violent about it and also
they can love who they want to love and
 
 
they can love who they want to love and
 
 
they can love who they want to love and
that doesn't make them less of a man i
 
 
that doesn't make them less of a man i
 
 
that doesn't make them less of a man i
think that that's also a big part of the
 
 
think that that's also a big part of the
 
 
think that that's also a big part of the
conversation
 
 
conversation
 
 
conversation
right absolutely absolutely right i i
 
 
right absolutely absolutely right i i
 
 
right absolutely absolutely right i i
just want to say i don't even have a
 
 
just want to say i don't even have a
 
 
just want to say i don't even have a
question just thank you for being here
 
 
question just thank you for being here
 
 
question just thank you for being here
but then also
 
 
but then also
 
 
but then also
i i you know like we're starting to have
 
 
i i you know like we're starting to have
 
 
i i you know like we're starting to have
this conversation we've been saying for
 
 
this conversation we've been saying for
 
 
this conversation we've been saying for
a long time that we were going to have
 
 
a long time that we were going to have
 
 
a long time that we were going to have
these conversations on our podcast and
 
 
these conversations on our podcast and
 
 
these conversations on our podcast and
i'm so glad that we're starting to do
 
 
i'm so glad that we're starting to do
 
 
i'm so glad that we're starting to do
that but for people who you know
 
 
that but for people who you know
 
 
that but for people who you know
need to not just want to but need to
 
 
need to not just want to but need to
 
 
need to not just want to but need to
learn more need to be talking about you
 
 
learn more need to be talking about you
 
 
learn more need to be talking about you
know and i i just want to say i love
 
 
know and i i just want to say i love
 
 
know and i i just want to say i love
that you don't separate
 
 
that you don't separate
 
 
that you don't separate
you know like the black trans community
 
 
you know like the black trans community
 
 
you know like the black trans community
from black people you said like you talk
 
 
from black people you said like you talk
 
 
from black people you said like you talk
about it as a whole and i think that's
 
 
about it as a whole and i think that's
 
 
about it as a whole and i think that's
what we need to start doing as well so
 
 
what we need to start doing as well so
 
 
what we need to start doing as well so
where can people find some resources
 
 
where can people find some resources
 
 
where can people find some resources
some website find what you're doing out
 
 
some website find what you're doing out
 
 
some website find what you're doing out
there so we can keep this conversation
 
 
there so we can keep this conversation
 
 
there so we can keep this conversation
going
 
 
going
 
 
going
yeah well i i'm really proud of this um
 
 
yeah well i i'm really proud of this um
 
 
yeah well i i'm really proud of this um
black trans history tick tock series
 
 
black trans history tick tock series
 
 
black trans history tick tock series
that i did for black history month i
 
 
that i did for black history month i
 
 
that i did for black history month i
really found like a bunch of figures
 
 
really found like a bunch of figures
 
 
really found like a bunch of figures
from literally like the 1800s the early
 
 
from literally like the 1800s the early
 
 
from literally like the 1800s the early
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
today right who lived
 
 
today right who lived
 
 
today right who lived
as who they are and and
 
 
as who they are and and
 
 
as who they are and and
i can nerd out about all of this for for
 
 
i can nerd out about all of this for for
 
 
i can nerd out about all of this for for
years but a lot of the earliest records
 
 
years but a lot of the earliest records
 
 
years but a lot of the earliest records
we have of black trans people are
 
 
we have of black trans people are
 
 
we have of black trans people are
actually criminal and court records
 
 
actually criminal and court records
 
 
actually criminal and court records
because a lot of times you would be
 
 
because a lot of times you would be
 
 
because a lot of times you would be
arrested for wearing clothing that they
 
 
arrested for wearing clothing that they
 
 
arrested for wearing clothing that they
they told you you couldn't wear because
 
 
they told you you couldn't wear because
 
 
they told you you couldn't wear because
of your gender and i think a lot of a
 
 
of your gender and i think a lot of a
 
 
of your gender and i think a lot of a
lot of us don't know that in terms of
 
 
lot of us don't know that in terms of
 
 
lot of us don't know that in terms of
the history of the criminalization of
 
 
the history of the criminalization of
 
 
the history of the criminalization of
black people so i would say look of the
 
 
black people so i would say look of the
 
 
black people so i would say look of the
black trans history tech talk some
 
 
black trans history tech talk some
 
 
black trans history tech talk some
amazing books there's one called black
 
 
amazing books there's one called black
 
 
amazing books there's one called black
on both sides by a scholar called c
 
 
on both sides by a scholar called c
 
 
on both sides by a scholar called c
riley snorton
 
 
riley snorton
 
 
riley snorton
amazing book i would also lift up my
 
 
amazing book i would also lift up my
 
 
amazing book i would also lift up my
sister janet mock who i'm sure some
 
 
sister janet mock who i'm sure some
 
 
sister janet mock who i'm sure some
folks know
 
 
folks know
 
 
folks know
her first two memoirs um redefining
 
 
her first two memoirs um redefining
 
 
her first two memoirs um redefining
realness and surpassing certainty are
 
 
realness and surpassing certainty are
 
 
realness and surpassing certainty are
amazing
 
 
amazing
 
 
amazing
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
there's a movie well it's really a
 
 
there's a movie well it's really a
 
 
there's a movie well it's really a
documentary on strong island by a black
 
 
documentary on strong island by a black
 
 
documentary on strong island by a black
trans director named
 
 
trans director named
 
 
trans director named
yance ford
 
 
yance ford
 
 
yance ford
that i would say people could watch that
 
 
that i would say people could watch that
 
 
that i would say people could watch that
too and learn more and they kind of talk
 
 
too and learn more and they kind of talk
 
 
too and learn more and they kind of talk
about their brother who who was murdered
 
 
about their brother who who was murdered
 
 
about their brother who who was murdered
in the 90s by a white man that he worked
 
 
in the 90s by a white man that he worked
 
 
in the 90s by a white man that he worked
with and and the jewelry was not on
 
 
with and and the jewelry was not on
 
 
with and and the jewelry was not on
their side so
 
 
their side so
 
 
their side so
so that's a few different things there's
 
 
so that's a few different things there's
 
 
so that's a few different things there's
a lot more out there follow me i'm
 
 
a lot more out there follow me i'm
 
 
a lot more out there follow me i'm
always sharing more resources
 
 
always sharing more resources
 
 
always sharing more resources
you know
 
 
you know
 
 
you know
follow you where
 
 
follow you where
 
 
follow you where
oh just right now willis
 
 
oh just right now willis
 
 
oh just right now willis
calm raquel willis on ig twitter you
 
 
calm raquel willis on ig twitter you
 
 
calm raquel willis on ig twitter you
know i try to have it synced up so
 
 
know i try to have it synced up so
 
 
know i try to have it synced up so
all right thank you so much for joining
 
 
all right thank you so much for joining
 
 
all right thank you so much for joining
us yes thank you appreciate it all right
 
 
us yes thank you appreciate it all right
 
 
us yes thank you appreciate it all right
you guys we're gonna be right back on
 
 
you guys we're gonna be right back on
 
 
you guys we're gonna be right back on
the other side of this break raquel was
 
 
the other side of this break raquel was
 
 
the other side of this break raquel was
great fantastic
 
 
great fantastic
 
 
great fantastic
and you know what i like is that she was
 
 
and you know what i like is that she was
 
 
and you know what i like is that she was
like i don't have all the answers you
 
 
like i don't have all the answers you
 
 
like i don't have all the answers you
know i'm sure people come to her all the
 
 
know i'm sure people come to her all the
 
 
know i'm sure people come to her all the
time and they're like you know tell me
 
 
time and they're like you know tell me
 
 
time and they're like you know tell me
what to do or you know like how can we
 
 
what to do or you know like how can we
 
 
what to do or you know like how can we
fix this problem and i think the biggest
 
 
fix this problem and i think the biggest
 
 
fix this problem and i think the biggest
takeaway from what she said is like we
 
 
takeaway from what she said is like we
 
 
takeaway from what she said is like we
got to talk about it we have to have
 
 
got to talk about it we have to have
 
 
got to talk about it we have to have
these conversations yeah it's true
 
 
these conversations yeah it's true
 
 
these conversations yeah it's true
i'll do that with white people
 
 
i'll do that with white people
 
 
i'll do that with white people
i know you don't well white people come
 
 
i know you don't well white people come
 
 
i know you don't well white people come
up and they ask me how to solve this
 
 
up and they ask me how to solve this
 
 
up and they ask me how to solve this
problem i just i just i always have an
 
 
problem i just i just i always have an
 
 
problem i just i just i always have an
answer the answer is a lot sometimes the
 
 
answer the answer is a lot sometimes the
 
 
answer the answer is a lot sometimes the
answer is like not my real answer
 
 
answer is like not my real answer
 
 
answer is like not my real answer
like man how do we solve uh like racism
 
 
like man how do we solve uh like racism
 
 
like man how do we solve uh like racism
you know how we solve it stop being a
 
 
you know how we solve it stop being a
 
 
you know how we solve it stop being a
[ __ ] how about that
 
 
[ __ ] how about that
 
 
[ __ ] how about that
that's what you do
 
 
that's what you do
 
 
that's what you do
there's some truth into that man i want
 
 
there's some truth into that man i want
 
 
there's some truth into that man i want
to know how you can how you can how we
 
 
to know how you can how you can how we
 
 
to know how you can how you can how we
can help out how can i be a good ally by
 
 
can help out how can i be a good ally by
 
 
can help out how can i be a good ally by
getting your head out of your [ __ ]
 
 
getting your head out of your [ __ ]
 
 
getting your head out of your [ __ ]
ass
 
 
ass
 
 
ass
that's how that's the kind of allies i
 
 
that's how that's the kind of allies i
 
 
that's how that's the kind of allies i
want y'all just ask me
 
 
want y'all just ask me
 
 
want y'all just ask me
just ask me rachel big stuff happening
 
 
just ask me rachel big stuff happening
 
 
just ask me rachel big stuff happening
right now in dc mm-hmm
 
 
right now in dc mm-hmm
 
 
right now in dc mm-hmm
katanji brown jackson
 
 
katanji brown jackson
 
 
katanji brown jackson
it's day one
 
 
it's day one
 
 
it's day one
for confirmation hearing she is
 
 
for confirmation hearing she is
 
 
for confirmation hearing she is
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
in all probability going to be the first
 
 
in all probability going to be the first
 
 
in all probability going to be the first
black lady judge
 
 
black lady judge
 
 
black lady judge
in the history of the supreme court
 
 
in the history of the supreme court
 
 
in the history of the supreme court
and i think everybody knows what a big
 
 
and i think everybody knows what a big
 
 
and i think everybody knows what a big
huge thing that is to me
 
 
huge thing that is to me
 
 
huge thing that is to me
all right they've been coming at her i
 
 
all right they've been coming at her i
 
 
all right they've been coming at her i
wanna i wanna um
 
 
wanna i wanna um
 
 
wanna i wanna um
i wanna throw something out here i saw
 
 
i wanna throw something out here i saw
 
 
i wanna throw something out here i saw
this see what you think about this
 
 
this see what you think about this
 
 
this see what you think about this
because you're a legal eagle
 
 
because you're a legal eagle
 
 
because you're a legal eagle
you're a legal ego
 
 
you're a legal ego
 
 
you're a legal ego
all right
 
 
all right
 
 
all right
right now
 
 
 
 
as far as someone
 
 
as far as someone
 
 
as far as someone
who has had public high school
 
 
who has had public high school
 
 
who has had public high school
ivy league law school
 
 
ivy league law school
 
 
ivy league law school
supreme court kurt clerk
 
 
supreme court kurt clerk
 
 
supreme court kurt clerk
public defender
 
 
public defender
 
 
public defender
has been on a sentencing commission
 
 
has been on a sentencing commission
 
 
has been on a sentencing commission
has been a district judge
 
 
has been a district judge
 
 
has been a district judge
and a court of appeals judge with all of
 
 
and a court of appeals judge with all of
 
 
and a court of appeals judge with all of
those things
 
 
those things
 
 
those things
there is
 
 
there is
 
 
there is
one judge
 
 
one judge
 
 
one judge
that checks off all of those boxes when
 
 
that checks off all of those boxes when
 
 
that checks off all of those boxes when
we talk about qualifications
 
 
we talk about qualifications
 
 
we talk about qualifications
ivy league law school obviously went to
 
 
ivy league law school obviously went to
 
 
ivy league law school obviously went to
a public high school which is a big deal
 
 
a public high school which is a big deal
 
 
a public high school which is a big deal
because you want people to be seasoned
 
 
because you want people to be seasoned
 
 
because you want people to be seasoned
with being around the regular folks
 
 
with being around the regular folks
 
 
with being around the regular folks
supreme court clerk a public defender on
 
 
supreme court clerk a public defender on
 
 
supreme court clerk a public defender on
a sentencing commission a district judge
 
 
a sentencing commission a district judge
 
 
a sentencing commission a district judge
and in the court of appeals this one
 
 
and in the court of appeals this one
 
 
and in the court of appeals this one
person do you know who that is
 
 
person do you know who that is
 
 
person do you know who that is
uh yeah wait they currently sit on the
 
 
uh yeah wait they currently sit on the
 
 
uh yeah wait they currently sit on the
court they're not currently on the court
 
 
court they're not currently on the court
 
 
court they're not currently on the court
oh yeah we're talking about katanji
 
 
oh yeah we're talking about katanji
 
 
oh yeah we're talking about katanji
wrong clarence thomas just joking uh
 
 
wrong clarence thomas just joking uh
 
 
wrong clarence thomas just joking uh
i know that ain't the case um yeah it's
 
 
i know that ain't the case um yeah it's
 
 
i know that ain't the case um yeah it's
kataji jackson so
 
 
kataji jackson so
 
 
kataji jackson so
it just seems weird
 
 
it just seems weird
 
 
it just seems weird
that a sister steps through the door
 
 
that a sister steps through the door
 
 
that a sister steps through the door
who's overqualified
 
 
who's overqualified
 
 
who's overqualified
super qualified and they pay weird well
 
 
super qualified and they pay weird well
 
 
super qualified and they pay weird well
not weird is it weird it's to be
 
 
not weird is it weird it's to be
 
 
not weird is it weird it's to be
expected right like this is where the y
 
 
expected right like this is where the y
 
 
expected right like this is where the y
phrase is like twice as hard for half as
 
 
phrase is like twice as hard for half as
 
 
phrase is like twice as hard for half as
much to come about like you know you got
 
 
much to come about like you know you got
 
 
much to come about like you know you got
to be at the top of your game you can't
 
 
to be at the top of your game you can't
 
 
to be at the top of your game you can't
half ass it when you're stepping into
 
 
half ass it when you're stepping into
 
 
half ass it when you're stepping into
really anything as a first
 
 
really anything as a first
 
 
really anything as a first
uh she addressed the committee opening
 
 
uh she addressed the committee opening
 
 
uh she addressed the committee opening
statements this is what she had to say
 
 
statements this is what she had to say
 
 
statements this is what she had to say
the first of my many blessings is the
 
 
the first of my many blessings is the
 
 
the first of my many blessings is the
fact that i was born in this great
 
 
fact that i was born in this great
 
 
fact that i was born in this great
nation
 
 
nation
 
 
nation
a little over 50 years ago in september
 
 
a little over 50 years ago in september
 
 
a little over 50 years ago in september
of 1970
 
 
of 1970
 
 
of 1970
congress had enacted two civil rights
 
 
congress had enacted two civil rights
 
 
congress had enacted two civil rights
acts in the decade before and like so
 
 
acts in the decade before and like so
 
 
acts in the decade before and like so
many who had experienced lawful racial
 
 
many who had experienced lawful racial
 
 
many who had experienced lawful racial
segregation firsthand
 
 
segregation firsthand
 
 
segregation firsthand
my parents johnny and ellery brown
 
 
my parents johnny and ellery brown
 
 
my parents johnny and ellery brown
left their hometown of miami florida and
 
 
left their hometown of miami florida and
 
 
left their hometown of miami florida and
moved to washington d.c
 
 
moved to washington d.c
 
 
moved to washington d.c
to experience new freedom
 
 
to experience new freedom
 
 
to experience new freedom
when i was born here in washington my
 
 
when i was born here in washington my
 
 
when i was born here in washington my
parents were public school teachers
 
 
parents were public school teachers
 
 
parents were public school teachers
and to express both pride in their
 
 
and to express both pride in their
 
 
and to express both pride in their
heritage and hope for the future
 
 
heritage and hope for the future
 
 
heritage and hope for the future
they gave me an african name
 
 
they gave me an african name
 
 
they gave me an african name
katanji onyica which they were told
 
 
katanji onyica which they were told
 
 
katanji onyica which they were told
means lovely one
 
 
means lovely one
 
 
means lovely one
my parents taught me
 
 
my parents taught me
 
 
my parents taught me
that unlike the many barriers that they
 
 
that unlike the many barriers that they
 
 
that unlike the many barriers that they
had had to face growing up
 
 
had had to face growing up
 
 
had had to face growing up
my path was clearer
 
 
my path was clearer
 
 
my path was clearer
so that if i worked hard and i believed
 
 
so that if i worked hard and i believed
 
 
so that if i worked hard and i believed
in myself in america i could do anything
 
 
in myself in america i could do anything
 
 
in myself in america i could do anything
or be anything i wanted to be you know
 
 
or be anything i wanted to be you know
 
 
or be anything i wanted to be you know
you know what could tell you something
 
 
you know what could tell you something
 
 
you know what could tell you something
tell me that's beautifully said
 
 
tell me that's beautifully said
 
 
tell me that's beautifully said
beautifully yeah
 
 
beautifully yeah
 
 
beautifully yeah
you know why
 
 
you know why
 
 
you know why
despite this the spot the spot
 
 
despite this the spot the spot
 
 
despite this the spot the spot
besides the fact that she is you know
 
 
besides the fact that she is you know
 
 
besides the fact that she is you know
way smarter
 
 
way smarter
 
 
way smarter
way more qualified
 
 
way more qualified
 
 
way more qualified
and so is president obama so is michelle
 
 
and so is president obama so is michelle
 
 
and so is president obama so is michelle
obama so is everyone that's on that
 
 
obama so is everyone that's on that
 
 
obama so is everyone that's on that
level do you know why that'll never be
 
 
level do you know why that'll never be
 
 
level do you know why that'll never be
me
 
 
me
 
 
me
why
 
 
why
 
 
why
or it could never be me it's cause like
 
 
or it could never be me it's cause like
 
 
or it could never be me it's cause like
they really love america for real
 
 
they really love america for real
 
 
they really love america for real
i could tell in her voice
 
 
i could tell in her voice
 
 
i could tell in her voice
that she loves america like she's
 
 
that she loves america like she's
 
 
that she loves america like she's
supposed to say
 
 
supposed to say
 
 
supposed to say
she's got to love america
 
 
she's got to love america
 
 
she's got to love america
like people this is a thing that they
 
 
like people this is a thing that they
 
 
like people this is a thing that they
don't think
 
 
don't think
 
 
don't think
like for me i'm not like a super patriot
 
 
like for me i'm not like a super patriot
 
 
like for me i'm not like a super patriot
because i
 
 
because i
 
 
because i
no you're not but what is she supposed
 
 
no you're not but what is she supposed
 
 
no you're not but what is she supposed
to say she really loves america though
 
 
to say she really loves america though
 
 
to say she really loves america though
for real she's devoted her entire life
 
 
for real she's devoted her entire life
 
 
for real she's devoted her entire life
to the american process and sometimes
 
 
to the american process and sometimes
 
 
to the american process and sometimes
black people don't get credit
 
 
black people don't get credit
 
 
black people don't get credit
for being patriots
 
 
for being patriots
 
 
for being patriots
and that's because
 
 
and that's because
 
 
and that's because
let's be honest
 
 
 
 
we kind of judge black patriots if like
 
 
we kind of judge black patriots if like
 
 
we kind of judge black patriots if like
if you if you're a black person and you
 
 
if you if you're a black person and you
 
 
if you if you're a black person and you
love love love like love america like
 
 
love love love like love america like
 
 
love love love like love america like
you isn't that like weird
 
 
you isn't that like weird
 
 
you isn't that like weird
so you know what i didn't look at it as
 
 
so you know what i didn't look at it as
 
 
so you know what i didn't look at it as
much as like
 
 
much as like
 
 
much as like
she love loves america i just i guess i
 
 
she love loves america i just i guess i
 
 
she love loves america i just i guess i
just looked at it as she as you said has
 
 
just looked at it as she as you said has
 
 
just looked at it as she as you said has
dedicated her life
 
 
dedicated her life
 
 
dedicated her life
to people right into helping people
 
 
to people right into helping people
 
 
to people right into helping people
which happens to be in this country
 
 
which happens to be in this country
 
 
which happens to be in this country
america right she loves people she wants
 
 
america right she loves people she wants
 
 
america right she loves people she wants
people
 
 
people
 
 
people
to help people she wants people like she
 
 
to help people she wants people like she
 
 
to help people she wants people like she
has a talent a gift where she can be in
 
 
has a talent a gift where she can be in
 
 
has a talent a gift where she can be in
a position
 
 
a position
 
 
a position
to help people you know who look like
 
 
to help people you know who look like
 
 
to help people you know who look like
her as well and i and i that's more of i
 
 
her as well and i and i that's more of i
 
 
her as well and i and i that's more of i
guess what i got from that right then i
 
 
guess what i got from that right then i
 
 
guess what i got from that right then i
got like she's like about to you know
 
 
got like she's like about to you know
 
 
got like she's like about to you know
strike a
 
 
strike a
 
 
strike a
verse from i'm proud to be an american
 
 
verse from i'm proud to be an american
 
 
verse from i'm proud to be an american
i was just thinking
 
 
i was just thinking
 
 
i was just thinking
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
did we a halloween
 
 
 
 
and i'll gladly stand up
 
 
and i'll gladly stand up
 
 
and i'll gladly stand up
god bless
 
 
 
 
why the [ __ ]
 
 
why the [ __ ]
 
 
why the [ __ ]
you know what i'm saying at least i know
 
 
you know what i'm saying at least i know
 
 
you know what i'm saying at least i know
i'm free all my uncles in jail
 
 
i'm free all my uncles in jail
 
 
i'm free all my uncles in jail
so they're always there
 
 
so they're always there
 
 
so they're always there
at least i know it sounds like bob
 
 
at least i know it sounds like bob
 
 
at least i know it sounds like bob
seeger or something
 
 
 
 
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
lee greenwood lee greenwood
 
 
 
 
have you seen lee
 
 
have you seen lee
 
 
have you seen lee
let me see
 
 
let me see
 
 
let me see
[Laughter]
 
 
 
 
i bet lee greenwood got so many n words
 
 
i bet lee greenwood got so many n words
 
 
i bet lee greenwood got so many n words
just just type br just type in proud to
 
 
just just type br just type in proud to
 
 
just just type br just type in proud to
be an american because i want you to see
 
 
be an american because i want you to see
 
 
be an american because i want you to see
the same word oh
 
 
the same word oh
 
 
the same word oh
honest that is not who i would have
 
 
honest that is not who i would have
 
 
honest that is not who i would have
thought
 
 
 
 
that exactly not who i would have
 
 
that exactly not who i would have
 
 
that exactly not who i would have
thought that that was
 
 
thought that that was
 
 
thought that that was
he was a member of the national council
 
 
he was a member of the national council
 
 
he was a member of the national council
of the arts he's a republican of course
 
 
of the arts he's a republican of course
 
 
of the arts he's a republican of course
um
 
 
 
 
well i was released in 1984 i don't know
 
 
well i was released in 1984 i don't know
 
 
well i was released in 1984 i don't know
why i thought that song was older than
 
 
why i thought that song was older than
 
 
why i thought that song was older than
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
they don't have any i want to know what
 
 
they don't have any i want to know what
 
 
they don't have any i want to know what
lee greenwood's uh
 
 
lee greenwood's uh
 
 
lee greenwood's uh
controversies are
 
 
controversies are
 
 
controversies are
let me see
 
 
let me see
 
 
let me see
okay anyway um you know so look uh the
 
 
okay anyway um you know so look uh the
 
 
okay anyway um you know so look uh the
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
the uh
 
 
the uh
 
 
the uh
oh oh
 
 
oh oh
 
 
oh oh
wait a minute
 
 
wait a minute
 
 
wait a minute
did you find something no the day before
 
 
did you find something no the day before
 
 
did you find something no the day before
the inauguration of donald trump
 
 
the inauguration of donald trump
 
 
the inauguration of donald trump
lee greenwood performed at the make
 
 
lee greenwood performed at the make
 
 
lee greenwood performed at the make
america great welcome celebration
 
 
america great welcome celebration
 
 
america great welcome celebration
there you go lee greenwood
 
 
there you go lee greenwood
 
 
there you go lee greenwood
i know it [ __ ]
 
 
i know it [ __ ]
 
 
i know it [ __ ]
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
all right
 
 
all right
 
 
all right
so
 
 
so
 
 
so
look uh the republicans have come out
 
 
look uh the republicans have come out
 
 
look uh the republicans have come out
with their pitchforks
 
 
with their pitchforks
 
 
with their pitchforks
against uh katanji
 
 
against uh katanji
 
 
against uh katanji
coming out um this is what senator ted
 
 
coming out um this is what senator ted
 
 
coming out um this is what senator ted
cook
 
 
cook
 
 
cook
from a republican from texas your home
 
 
from a republican from texas your home
 
 
from a republican from texas your home
state
 
 
state
 
 
state
uh
 
 
uh
 
 
uh
uh she is part of the democratic effort
 
 
uh she is part of the democratic effort
 
 
uh she is part of the democratic effort
to abolish the police
 
 
to abolish the police
 
 
to abolish the police
is uh just nominating justices that
 
 
is uh just nominating justices that
 
 
is uh just nominating justices that
consistently side with violent criminals
 
 
consistently side with violent criminals
 
 
consistently side with violent criminals
release violent criminals refuse to
 
 
release violent criminals refuse to
 
 
release violent criminals refuse to
enforce the law
 
 
enforce the law
 
 
enforce the law
uh and that results in jeopardizing
 
 
uh and that results in jeopardizing
 
 
uh and that results in jeopardizing
innocent citizens now this is
 
 
innocent citizens now this is
 
 
innocent citizens now this is
uh coming from the fact that number one
 
 
uh coming from the fact that number one
 
 
uh coming from the fact that number one
she served as a public defender
 
 
she served as a public defender
 
 
she served as a public defender
which is you know part of america people
 
 
which is you know part of america people
 
 
which is you know part of america people
say hey you public defender that means
 
 
say hey you public defender that means
 
 
say hey you public defender that means
you must love
 
 
you must love
 
 
you must love
criminals that's the same
 
 
criminals that's the same
 
 
criminals that's the same
and also
 
 
and also
 
 
and also
uh she's been a part of several
 
 
uh she's been a part of several
 
 
uh she's been a part of several
progressive criminal justice policies
 
 
progressive criminal justice policies
 
 
progressive criminal justice policies
the republicans never cease to amaze me
 
 
the republicans never cease to amaze me
 
 
the republicans never cease to amaze me
one second the republicans are hey we
 
 
one second the republicans are hey we
 
 
one second the republicans are hey we
let more [ __ ] out than anybody first
 
 
let more [ __ ] out than anybody first
 
 
let more [ __ ] out than anybody first
step act we are changing criminal
 
 
step act we are changing criminal
 
 
step act we are changing criminal
justice reform in this country forever
 
 
justice reform in this country forever
 
 
justice reform in this country forever
and it's kushner and trump
 
 
and it's kushner and trump
 
 
and it's kushner and trump
kushner and trump
 
 
kushner and trump
 
 
kushner and trump
captain save a hose we're going to go
 
 
captain save a hose we're going to go
 
 
captain save a hose we're going to go
around to everyone and let everybody out
 
 
around to everyone and let everybody out
 
 
around to everyone and let everybody out
of jail everybody that's ever been in
 
 
of jail everybody that's ever been in
 
 
of jail everybody that's ever been in
jail we're going to let them out because
 
 
jail we're going to let them out because
 
 
jail we're going to let them out because
we're changing the way this goes but as
 
 
we're changing the way this goes but as
 
 
we're changing the way this goes but as
soon as you get a justice in there who's
 
 
soon as you get a justice in there who's
 
 
soon as you get a justice in there who's
dedicated their life to really examining
 
 
dedicated their life to really examining
 
 
dedicated their life to really examining
these things
 
 
these things
 
 
these things
and talking about tennis reform and
 
 
and talking about tennis reform and
 
 
and talking about tennis reform and
talking about these issues on a judicial
 
 
talking about these issues on a judicial
 
 
talking about these issues on a judicial
level
 
 
level
 
 
level
now soft on crime pro letting criminals
 
 
now soft on crime pro letting criminals
 
 
now soft on crime pro letting criminals
out when i thought
 
 
out when i thought
 
 
out when i thought
the republicans were taking
 
 
the republicans were taking
 
 
the republicans were taking
responsibility and credit for criminal
 
 
responsibility and credit for criminal
 
 
responsibility and credit for criminal
justice reform
 
 
justice reform
 
 
justice reform
did you call him senator ted crook
 
 
 
 
do you know what a cuck is
 
 
 
 
it's not a big can i can i get the
 
 
it's not a big can i can i get the
 
 
it's not a big can i can i get the
spelling let's guess c
 
 
spelling let's guess c
 
 
spelling let's guess c
c-u-c-k rachel what is a cuck
 
 
c-u-c-k rachel what is a cuck
 
 
c-u-c-k rachel what is a cuck
dick
 
 
dick
 
 
dick
no
 
 
no
 
 
no
it has something to do with that though
 
 
it has something to do with that though
 
 
it has something to do with that though
okay so cuck
 
 
okay so cuck
 
 
okay so cuck
is short for the a term called cuckhold
 
 
is short for the a term called cuckhold
 
 
is short for the a term called cuckhold
do you know what it means to be
 
 
do you know what it means to be
 
 
do you know what it means to be
cuckolded
 
 
cuckolded
 
 
cuckolded
no
 
 
no
 
 
no
dotty
 
 
dotty
 
 
dotty
do you what no no no no hell no
 
 
do you what no no no no hell no
 
 
do you what no no no no hell no
you are not allowed at all donnie do you
 
 
you are not allowed at all donnie do you
 
 
you are not allowed at all donnie do you
know what it means to be cuckholding
 
 
know what it means to be cuckholding
 
 
know what it means to be cuckholding
uh yes i do
 
 
uh yes i do
 
 
uh yes i do
donnie
 
 
donnie
 
 
donnie
before we get to the definition trudy
 
 
before we get to the definition trudy
 
 
before we get to the definition trudy
trudy trudy already looked it up
 
 
trudy trudy already looked it up
 
 
trudy trudy already looked it up
trudy do you know what it means to be
 
 
trudy do you know what it means to be
 
 
trudy do you know what it means to be
cuckold no
 
 
cuckold no
 
 
cuckold no
what is that interesting you guys go to
 
 
what is that interesting you guys go to
 
 
what is that interesting you guys go to
different websites than i do donny what
 
 
different websites than i do donny what
 
 
different websites than i do donny what
does it mean to be cook hold it
 
 
does it mean to be cook hold it
 
 
does it mean to be cook hold it
a cuckold is a person who uh enjoys
 
 
a cuckold is a person who uh enjoys
 
 
a cuckold is a person who uh enjoys
watching somebody have sex with their
 
 
watching somebody have sex with their
 
 
watching somebody have sex with their
significant other i don't know if it's
 
 
significant other i don't know if it's
 
 
significant other i don't know if it's
strictly man or a woman i thought that
 
 
strictly man or a woman i thought that
 
 
strictly man or a woman i thought that
was like voyeurism right so
 
 
was like voyeurism right so
 
 
was like voyeurism right so
cuckold is really when if like you're if
 
 
cuckold is really when if like you're if
 
 
cuckold is really when if like you're if
your woman is [ __ ] another person
 
 
your woman is [ __ ] another person
 
 
your woman is [ __ ] another person
then you're a cuck you're a beta cuck
 
 
then you're a cuck you're a beta cuck
 
 
then you're a cuck you're a beta cuck
bastard you're a little beta cuck little
 
 
bastard you're a little beta cuck little
 
 
bastard you're a little beta cuck little
cucky cuck
 
 
cucky cuck
 
 
cucky cuck
cuckold let's let's look at the
 
 
cuckold let's let's look at the
 
 
cuckold let's let's look at the
higher learning word of the week we're
 
 
higher learning word of the week we're
 
 
higher learning word of the week we're
gonna start do word of the week every
 
 
gonna start do word of the week every
 
 
gonna start do word of the week every
week cuckhold
 
 
week cuckhold
 
 
week cuckhold
all right cook holdings no that's not
 
 
all right cook holdings no that's not
 
 
all right cook holdings no that's not
the words we're teaching our audience
 
 
the words we're teaching our audience
 
 
the words we're teaching our audience
cuckold cook holding is the act in which
 
 
cuckold cook holding is the act in which
 
 
cuckold cook holding is the act in which
a man or woman enjoys watching their
 
 
a man or woman enjoys watching their
 
 
a man or woman enjoys watching their
partner have sex with another person the
 
 
partner have sex with another person the
 
 
partner have sex with another person the
word cuckhold is based on the cuckoo
 
 
word cuckhold is based on the cuckoo
 
 
word cuckhold is based on the cuckoo
bird
 
 
bird
 
 
bird
which disguises its eggs and other birds
 
 
which disguises its eggs and other birds
 
 
which disguises its eggs and other birds
nests
 
 
nests
 
 
nests
and leaves them
 
 
and leaves them
 
 
and leaves them
to take care of the hatchlings oh you
 
 
to take care of the hatchlings oh you
 
 
to take care of the hatchlings oh you
got cuckolded so yeah he's a cuck he's a
 
 
got cuckolded so yeah he's a cuck he's a
 
 
got cuckolded so yeah he's a cuck he's a
beta cuck he's a cuck
 
 
beta cuck he's a cuck
 
 
beta cuck he's a cuck
he's a cuck it's a cup think about it
 
 
he's a cuck it's a cup think about it
 
 
he's a cuck it's a cup think about it
you cook
 
 
you cook
 
 
you cook
i mean you like watching somebody i
 
 
i mean you like watching somebody i
 
 
i mean you like watching somebody i
don't like it i don't like it
 
 
don't like it i don't like it
 
 
don't like it i don't like it
i don't like the word i don't like the
 
 
i don't like the word i don't like the
 
 
i don't like the word i don't like the
word
 
 
word
 
 
word
i mean if while we're throwing out words
 
 
i mean if while we're throwing out words
 
 
i mean if while we're throwing out words
like when it comes to the what i find
 
 
like when it comes to the what i find
 
 
like when it comes to the what i find
most interesting with the
 
 
most interesting with the
 
 
most interesting with the
republicans or at least republicans like
 
 
republicans or at least republicans like
 
 
republicans or at least republicans like
senator ted cruz
 
 
senator ted cruz
 
 
senator ted cruz
is the hypocrisy of it all like if you
 
 
is the hypocrisy of it all like if you
 
 
is the hypocrisy of it all like if you
looked up hypocrite hypocrisy whatever
 
 
looked up hypocrite hypocrisy whatever
 
 
looked up hypocrite hypocrisy whatever
form of the word you want to use it
 
 
form of the word you want to use it
 
 
form of the word you want to use it
would absolutely be the republicans in
 
 
would absolutely be the republicans in
 
 
would absolutely be the republicans in
this instance like
 
 
this instance like
 
 
this instance like
nothing matters there's nothing there's
 
 
nothing matters there's nothing there's
 
 
nothing matters there's nothing there's
nothing to stand on this it's just like
 
 
nothing to stand on this it's just like
 
 
nothing to stand on this it's just like
whatever the day it is whatever the
 
 
whatever the day it is whatever the
 
 
whatever the day it is whatever the
issue whatever is going to push forward
 
 
issue whatever is going to push forward
 
 
issue whatever is going to push forward
the agenda you know like the purpose the
 
 
the agenda you know like the purpose the
 
 
the agenda you know like the purpose the
bill whatever it may be the person
 
 
bill whatever it may be the person
 
 
bill whatever it may be the person
that's that is what they're standing on
 
 
that's that is what they're standing on
 
 
that's that is what they're standing on
and it's always going to be fickle and
 
 
and it's always going to be fickle and
 
 
and it's always going to be fickle and
fleeting it will change the next day
 
 
fleeting it will change the next day
 
 
fleeting it will change the next day
the next week the next month like
 
 
the next week the next month like
 
 
the next week the next month like
there's nothing that they hold on to
 
 
there's nothing that they hold on to
 
 
there's nothing that they hold on to
that's sacred that's value other than i
 
 
that's sacred that's value other than i
 
 
that's sacred that's value other than i
don't know themselves in their own
 
 
don't know themselves in their own
 
 
don't know themselves in their own
opinion they used to be though
 
 
opinion they used to be though
 
 
opinion they used to be though
didn't used to be that way
 
 
didn't used to be that way
 
 
didn't used to be that way
populism is something that's become
 
 
populism is something that's become
 
 
populism is something that's become
uh with the rise of donald trump
 
 
uh with the rise of donald trump
 
 
uh with the rise of donald trump
populism is something that's become a
 
 
populism is something that's become a
 
 
populism is something that's become a
bigger staple in the republican party
 
 
bigger staple in the republican party
 
 
bigger staple in the republican party
but it wasn't always that way
 
 
but it wasn't always that way
 
 
but it wasn't always that way
there used to be five or six linchpin
 
 
there used to be five or six linchpin
 
 
there used to be five or six linchpin
sort of uh arguments that you could at
 
 
sort of uh arguments that you could at
 
 
sort of uh arguments that you could at
least
 
 
least
 
 
least
at least they would talk like now it's
 
 
at least they would talk like now it's
 
 
at least they would talk like now it's
crazy now their president comes in
 
 
crazy now their president comes in
 
 
crazy now their president comes in
spends a whole what but spends a whole
 
 
spends a whole what but spends a whole
 
 
spends a whole what but spends a whole
lot uh they're for spending for the
 
 
lot uh they're for spending for the
 
 
lot uh they're for spending for the
government or therefore they're
 
 
government or therefore they're
 
 
government or therefore they're
pro-welfare you give billions of
 
 
pro-welfare you give billions of
 
 
pro-welfare you give billions of
billions of dollars to the farmers
 
 
billions of dollars to the farmers
 
 
billions of dollars to the farmers
now you come in
 
 
now you come in
 
 
now you come in
you want your bill back better deal
 
 
you want your bill back better deal
 
 
you want your bill back better deal
they're against it politically that when
 
 
they're against it politically that when
 
 
they're against it politically that when
the democrat is in office they don't
 
 
the democrat is in office they don't
 
 
the democrat is in office they don't
give a [ __ ] about the deficit when the
 
 
give a [ __ ] about the deficit when the
 
 
give a [ __ ] about the deficit when the
uh excuse me republicans in office they
 
 
uh excuse me republicans in office they
 
 
uh excuse me republicans in office they
don't give a [ __ ] about the deficit when
 
 
don't give a [ __ ] about the deficit when
 
 
don't give a [ __ ] about the deficit when
the democrats in office all the deficit
 
 
the democrats in office all the deficit
 
 
the democrats in office all the deficit
is the deficit is one big huge deal
 
 
is the deficit is one big huge deal
 
 
is the deficit is one big huge deal
there's some of that that's political
 
 
there's some of that that's political
 
 
there's some of that that's political
like
 
 
like
 
 
like
life as usual like political like
 
 
life as usual like political like
 
 
life as usual like political like
politics as usual there but the
 
 
politics as usual there but the
 
 
politics as usual there but the
republicans have really really really
 
 
republicans have really really really
 
 
republicans have really really really
turned to populism in a way that uh
 
 
turned to populism in a way that uh
 
 
turned to populism in a way that uh
is is really concerning because that
 
 
is is really concerning because that
 
 
is is really concerning because that
means as crazy as their constituents are
 
 
means as crazy as their constituents are
 
 
means as crazy as their constituents are
that's how crazy they'll be
 
 
that's how crazy they'll be
 
 
that's how crazy they'll be
so you govern it from the from the
 
 
so you govern it from the from the
 
 
so you govern it from the from the
bottom up all right more is over
 
 
bottom up all right more is over
 
 
bottom up all right more is over
now i'm gonna be very honest with you i
 
 
now i'm gonna be very honest with you i
 
 
now i'm gonna be very honest with you i
thought it had been over i thought we've
 
 
thought it had been over i thought we've
 
 
thought it had been over i thought we've
been watching reruns this entire time i
 
 
been watching reruns this entire time i
 
 
been watching reruns this entire time i
did not know new episodes were being
 
 
did not know new episodes were being
 
 
did not know new episodes were being
made every single year i thought we were
 
 
made every single year i thought we were
 
 
made every single year i thought we were
watching i mean watching syndicated
 
 
watching i mean watching syndicated
 
 
watching i mean watching syndicated
shows here dude were you aware that
 
 
shows here dude were you aware that
 
 
shows here dude were you aware that
maury's still on the air i've never
 
 
maury's still on the air i've never
 
 
maury's still on the air i've never
watched one episode of more
 
 
watched one episode of more
 
 
watched one episode of more
ever yeah i definitely have i've
 
 
ever yeah i definitely have i've
 
 
ever yeah i definitely have i've
definitely watched a full episode yeah
 
 
definitely watched a full episode yeah
 
 
definitely watched a full episode yeah
never but you've seen clips of course
 
 
never but you've seen clips of course
 
 
never but you've seen clips of course
okay
 
 
okay
 
 
okay
uh nbc universal executive told deadline
 
 
uh nbc universal executive told deadline
 
 
uh nbc universal executive told deadline
it's cancelling more at the end of the
 
 
it's cancelling more at the end of the
 
 
it's cancelling more at the end of the
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
out to mary povich uh
 
 
out to mary povich uh
 
 
out to mary povich uh
morris said he was ready to retire
 
 
morris said he was ready to retire
 
 
morris said he was ready to retire
six years ago but he said and i quote
 
 
six years ago but he said and i quote
 
 
six years ago but he said and i quote
i'm so proud of my relationship with nbc
 
 
i'm so proud of my relationship with nbc
 
 
i'm so proud of my relationship with nbc
universal and all those who worked on
 
 
universal and all those who worked on
 
 
universal and all those who worked on
the show
 
 
the show
 
 
the show
uh but as a as i
 
 
uh but as a as i
 
 
uh but as a as i
as i occasionally tell my guest on lori
 
 
as i occasionally tell my guest on lori
 
 
as i occasionally tell my guest on lori
enough already he said i wanted
 
 
enough already he said i wanted
 
 
enough already he said i wanted
to retire six years ago but maury says
 
 
to retire six years ago but maury says
 
 
to retire six years ago but maury says
and i quote you [ __ ] wouldn't stop
 
 
and i quote you [ __ ] wouldn't stop
 
 
and i quote you [ __ ] wouldn't stop
busting off
 
 
 
 
uh i will say this so there's been a lot
 
 
uh i will say this so there's been a lot
 
 
uh i will say this so there's been a lot
of shows that have gotten axed recently
 
 
of shows that have gotten axed recently
 
 
of shows that have gotten axed recently
i know there's some talk about whether
 
 
i know there's some talk about whether
 
 
i know there's some talk about whether
or not the real is coming back wendy
 
 
or not the real is coming back wendy
 
 
or not the real is coming back wendy
williams
 
 
williams
 
 
williams
uh is gone but the show i think is
 
 
uh is gone but the show i think is
 
 
uh is gone but the show i think is
sticking around i'm not sure about that
 
 
sticking around i'm not sure about that
 
 
sticking around i'm not sure about that
nick cannon is gone yeah nick was doing
 
 
nick cannon is gone yeah nick was doing
 
 
nick cannon is gone yeah nick was doing
a great job shout out to nick over there
 
 
a great job shout out to nick over there
 
 
a great job shout out to nick over there
but and i don't know if that's i mean
 
 
but and i don't know if that's i mean
 
 
but and i don't know if that's i mean
obviously these are staples that have
 
 
obviously these are staples that have
 
 
obviously these are staples that have
been around for a long time i just don't
 
 
been around for a long time i just don't
 
 
been around for a long time i just don't
know if that's because of tv
 
 
know if that's because of tv
 
 
know if that's because of tv
you know
 
 
you know
 
 
you know
it's newer generation no but there's
 
 
it's newer generation no but there's
 
 
it's newer generation no but there's
still i mean but there's still a huge
 
 
still i mean but there's still a huge
 
 
still i mean but there's still a huge
spot that watches daytime tv exactly
 
 
spot that watches daytime tv exactly
 
 
spot that watches daytime tv exactly
kelly clarkson doing well tamara hall
 
 
kelly clarkson doing well tamara hall
 
 
kelly clarkson doing well tamara hall
doing well ellen the end of ellen is
 
 
doing well ellen the end of ellen is
 
 
doing well ellen the end of ellen is
coming so ellen will have to
 
 
coming so ellen will have to
 
 
coming so ellen will have to
resort to screaming at people in the um
 
 
resort to screaming at people in the um
 
 
resort to screaming at people in the um
grocery store now we'll be able to do it
 
 
grocery store now we'll be able to do it
 
 
grocery store now we'll be able to do it
on our show
 
 
on our show
 
 
on our show
behind the scenes uh look here's the
 
 
behind the scenes uh look here's the
 
 
behind the scenes uh look here's the
thing about the morris show last thing
 
 
thing about the morris show last thing
 
 
thing about the morris show last thing
i'll say before we get to very serious
 
 
i'll say before we get to very serious
 
 
i'll say before we get to very serious
question
 
 
question
 
 
question
rachel
 
 
rachel
 
 
rachel
there's a hole in the
 
 
 
 
i marketplace
 
 
i marketplace
 
 
i marketplace
higher learning
 
 
higher learning
 
 
higher learning
should be the new place that you come
 
 
should be the new place that you come
 
 
should be the new place that you come
when you don't know
 
 
when you don't know
 
 
when you don't know
if that baby is yours all right well
 
 
if that baby is yours all right well
 
 
if that baby is yours all right well
we'll take we'll take uh donnie let's
 
 
we'll take we'll take uh donnie let's
 
 
we'll take we'll take uh donnie let's
get a message about a paternity test
 
 
get a message about a paternity test
 
 
get a message about a paternity test
paternity tests on higher learning you
 
 
paternity tests on higher learning you
 
 
paternity tests on higher learning you
think i'm joking i would like to do that
 
 
think i'm joking i would like to do that
 
 
think i'm joking i would like to do that
here you know i would like to do
 
 
here you know i would like to do
 
 
here you know i would like to do
paternity tests there's two two things
 
 
paternity tests there's two two things
 
 
paternity tests there's two two things
on maury that i know are there that i
 
 
on maury that i know are there that i
 
 
on maury that i know are there that i
would like to do
 
 
would like to do
 
 
would like to do
i would like to do because there's two
 
 
i would like to do because there's two
 
 
i would like to do because there's two
things that i like that maury would do i
 
 
things that i like that maury would do i
 
 
things that i like that maury would do i
like to do paternity tests and kids
 
 
like to do paternity tests and kids
 
 
like to do paternity tests and kids
going crazy
 
 
going crazy
 
 
going crazy
i personally think doesn't dr phil kind
 
 
i personally think doesn't dr phil kind
 
 
i personally think doesn't dr phil kind
of do kids going crazy is that dr phil
 
 
of do kids going crazy is that dr phil
 
 
of do kids going crazy is that dr phil
with kids going crazy well no i mean
 
 
with kids going crazy well no i mean
 
 
with kids going crazy well no i mean
like that's like where catch me outside
 
 
like that's like where catch me outside
 
 
like that's like where catch me outside
came out like where you can't control
 
 
came out like where you can't control
 
 
came out like where you can't control
your kids
 
 
your kids
 
 
your kids
yeah yeah yeah see cause i was just
 
 
yeah yeah yeah see cause i was just
 
 
yeah yeah yeah see cause i was just
thinking that cause i've seen kids going
 
 
thinking that cause i've seen kids going
 
 
thinking that cause i've seen kids going
crazy they come out everybody's like boo
 
 
crazy they come out everybody's like boo
 
 
crazy they come out everybody's like boo
and she's like [ __ ] you [ __ ] yeah so
 
 
and she's like [ __ ] you [ __ ] yeah so
 
 
and she's like [ __ ] you [ __ ] yeah so
what you gonna fight
 
 
 
 
there's a [ __ ] drill sergeant
 
 
there's a [ __ ] drill sergeant
 
 
there's a [ __ ] drill sergeant
that comes out there and the drill
 
 
that comes out there and the drill
 
 
that comes out there and the drill
sergeant runs out there
 
 
sergeant runs out there
 
 
sergeant runs out there
oh that's the name of the drill sergeant
 
 
oh that's the name of the drill sergeant
 
 
oh that's the name of the drill sergeant
no i'm just saying like he ended up
 
 
no i'm just saying like he ended up
 
 
no i'm just saying like he ended up
getting his own show the bodyguard came
 
 
getting his own show the bodyguard came
 
 
getting his own show the bodyguard came
from jerry springer remember yeah but he
 
 
from jerry springer remember yeah but he
 
 
from jerry springer remember yeah but he
wasn't the drill sergeant for the watch
 
 
wasn't the drill sergeant for the watch
 
 
wasn't the drill sergeant for the watch
no but he was like i feel you yeah yeah
 
 
no but he was like i feel you yeah yeah
 
 
no but he was like i feel you yeah yeah
yeah yeah my grandmother i mean
 
 
yeah yeah my grandmother i mean
 
 
yeah yeah my grandmother i mean
back in back in dallas they used to do i
 
 
back in back in dallas they used to do i
 
 
back in back in dallas they used to do i
believe it was the ricky smiley morning
 
 
believe it was the ricky smiley morning
 
 
believe it was the ricky smiley morning
show that did paternity test tuesdays
 
 
show that did paternity test tuesdays
 
 
show that did paternity test tuesdays
and you call him
 
 
and you call him
 
 
and you call him
and you'd call in
 
 
and you'd call in
 
 
and you'd call in
attorney test you are it was ricky
 
 
attorney test you are it was ricky
 
 
attorney test you are it was ricky
smiley you are not the father they did
 
 
smiley you are not the father they did
 
 
smiley you are not the father they did
it all the time paternity test tuesdays
 
 
it all the time paternity test tuesdays
 
 
it all the time paternity test tuesdays
tell you what the show does come out on
 
 
tell you what the show does come out on
 
 
tell you what the show does come out on
a tuesday if you ain't never
 
 
a tuesday if you ain't never
 
 
a tuesday if you ain't never
been through that
 
 
been through that
 
 
been through that
there's like a feeling
 
 
there's like a feeling
 
 
there's like a feeling
it's only happened to me twice in my 20s
 
 
it's only happened to me twice in my 20s
 
 
it's only happened to me twice in my 20s
there's a feeling
 
 
there's a feeling
 
 
there's a feeling
there's a feeling
 
 
there's a feeling
 
 
there's a feeling
of when somebody's gonna say that like
 
 
of when somebody's gonna say that like
 
 
of when somebody's gonna say that like
you get the call hey how you doing
 
 
you get the call hey how you doing
 
 
you get the call hey how you doing
what's up how are you doing i'm just
 
 
what's up how are you doing i'm just
 
 
what's up how are you doing i'm just
chilling
 
 
chilling
 
 
chilling
sitting around here i've been feeling
 
 
sitting around here i've been feeling
 
 
sitting around here i've been feeling
kind of i don't know a little off
 
 
kind of i don't know a little off
 
 
kind of i don't know a little off
and all of a sudden your heart starts
 
 
and all of a sudden your heart starts
 
 
and all of a sudden your heart starts
beating a little bit but you mean you've
 
 
beating a little bit but you mean you've
 
 
beating a little bit but you mean you've
been feeling off what you got like
 
 
been feeling off what you got like
 
 
been feeling off what you got like
cloak cold flu something like that
 
 
cloak cold flu something like that
 
 
cloak cold flu something like that
what's going on no no no like you know
 
 
what's going on no no no like you know
 
 
what's going on no no no like you know
it's like sick like my body
 
 
it's like sick like my body
 
 
it's like sick like my body
like you just feels like you know it's
 
 
like you just feels like you know it's
 
 
like you just feels like you know it's
just i know how i feel is i feel a
 
 
just i know how i feel is i feel a
 
 
just i know how i feel is i feel a
little different
 
 
little different
 
 
little different
i'm like yeah okay cool i gotta go no no
 
 
i'm like yeah okay cool i gotta go no no
 
 
i'm like yeah okay cool i gotta go no no
i gotta tell you something
 
 
i gotta tell you something
 
 
i gotta tell you something
what you gotta tell me now i gotta tell
 
 
what you gotta tell me now i gotta tell
 
 
what you gotta tell me now i gotta tell
you something seriously what you gotta
 
 
you something seriously what you gotta
 
 
you something seriously what you gotta
tell me i know i'm you know i said i'm
 
 
tell me i know i'm you know i said i'm
 
 
tell me i know i'm you know i said i'm
feeling well
 
 
feeling well
 
 
feeling well
i don't know i'm not gonna lie i'm a
 
 
i don't know i'm not gonna lie i'm a
 
 
i don't know i'm not gonna lie i'm a
little late you late for what
 
 
little late you late for what
 
 
little late you late for what
uh-huh what are you late for
 
 
uh-huh what are you late for
 
 
uh-huh what are you late for
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
 
 
[Laughter]
you wait for class what you mean
 
 
you wait for class what you mean
 
 
you wait for class what you mean
say say it
 
 
say say it
 
 
say say it
say you like what you late for when you
 
 
say you like what you late for when you
 
 
say you like what you late for when you
missed the bus and then boy the next f
 
 
missed the bus and then boy the next f
 
 
missed the bus and then boy the next f
did the next [ __ ] x amount of time i
 
 
did the next [ __ ] x amount of time i
 
 
did the next [ __ ] x amount of time i
remember that drive one time i drove to
 
 
remember that drive one time i drove to
 
 
remember that drive one time i drove to
her house
 
 
her house
 
 
her house
picked her up
 
 
picked her up
 
 
picked her up
to drive to walmart you could hear a
 
 
to drive to walmart you could hear a
 
 
to drive to walmart you could hear a
[ __ ] pin drop
 
 
[ __ ] pin drop
 
 
[ __ ] pin drop
i'm like is this how i'm going out all
 
 
i'm like is this how i'm going out all
 
 
i'm like is this how i'm going out all
right very serious question very serious
 
 
right very serious question very serious
 
 
right very serious question very serious
question versus question of the week
 
 
question versus question of the week
 
 
question versus question of the week
all right
 
 
 
 
if you had to be the last person
 
 
 
 
in a sea of other people on earth
 
 
in a sea of other people on earth
 
 
in a sea of other people on earth
would you be the la would you rather be
 
 
would you be the la would you rather be
 
 
would you be the la would you rather be
the last of your race
 
 
the last of your race
 
 
the last of your race
or the last of your gender
 
 
 
 
would you rather be such a good question
 
 
would you rather be such a good question
 
 
would you rather be such a good question
would you rather be
 
 
would you rather be
 
 
would you rather be
black person on earth or would you
 
 
black person on earth or would you
 
 
black person on earth or would you
rather be the only woman on earth i'd
 
 
rather be the only woman on earth i'd
 
 
rather be the only woman on earth i'd
rather be the only woman
 
 
rather be the only woman
 
 
rather be the only woman
it's going to be tough
 
 
it's going to be tough
 
 
it's going to be tough
i need it i need to be i don't want to
 
 
i need it i need to be i don't want to
 
 
i need it i need to be i don't want to
be the only black it's going to be tough
 
 
be the only black it's going to be tough
 
 
be the only black it's going to be tough
i don't want to be the only black it's
 
 
i don't want to be the only black it's
 
 
i don't want to be the only black it's
going to be no
 
 
going to be no
 
 
going to be no
originally i was like oh no i don't want
 
 
originally i was like oh no i don't want
 
 
originally i was like oh no i don't want
to be all these men it's just me
 
 
 
 
but i don't want to be the only black
 
 
but i don't want to be the only black
 
 
but i don't want to be the only black
person but
 
 
person but
 
 
person but
that's you saying you would rather it's
 
 
that's you saying you would rather it's
 
 
that's you saying you would rather it's
essentially you saying you would rather
 
 
essentially you saying you would rather
 
 
essentially you saying you would rather
have men as allies that have women as
 
 
have men as allies that have women as
 
 
have men as allies that have women as
allies that's not true that's not true
 
 
allies that's not true that's not true
 
 
allies that's not true that's not true
that's how you saw it that's not what i
 
 
that's how you saw it that's not what i
 
 
that's how you saw it that's not what i
said think about it think about it
 
 
said think about it think about it
 
 
said think about it think about it
no ellen pompeo
 
 
no ellen pompeo
 
 
no ellen pompeo
you know what i mean it's like what's
 
 
you know what i mean it's like what's
 
 
you know what i mean it's like what's
your answer huh what's your answer it's
 
 
your answer huh what's your answer it's
 
 
your answer huh what's your answer it's
different from me i'd rather be the only
 
 
different from me i'd rather be the only
 
 
different from me i'd rather be the only
man
 
 
 
 
it's a great question i'd rather be i'd
 
 
it's a great question i'd rather be i'd
 
 
it's a great question i'd rather be i'd
rather be the only man but you know
 
 
rather be the only man but you know
 
 
rather be the only man but you know
what's wild when you said the the last
 
 
what's wild when you said the the last
 
 
what's wild when you said the the last
of your race
 
 
of your race
 
 
of your race
and when i saw me as the only black
 
 
and when i saw me as the only black
 
 
and when i saw me as the only black
person i only saw white folks yeah for
 
 
person i only saw white folks yeah for
 
 
person i only saw white folks yeah for
say that and like and so i'm
 
 
say that and like and so i'm
 
 
say that and like and so i'm
latino but like
 
 
latino but like
 
 
latino but like
right obviously there would be i would
 
 
right obviously there would be i would
 
 
right obviously there would be i would
there would be other people of color
 
 
there would be other people of color
 
 
there would be other people of color
there right but
 
 
there right but
 
 
there right but
yeah i just i just you'd have you'd have
 
 
yeah i just i just you'd have you'd have
 
 
yeah i just i just you'd have you'd have
a whole tribe of jennifer lopez puerto
 
 
a whole tribe of jennifer lopez puerto
 
 
a whole tribe of jennifer lopez puerto
ricans
 
 
ricans
 
 
ricans
you know you'd have you'd have your
 
 
you know you'd have you'd have your
 
 
you know you'd have you'd have your
asian homies but
 
 
asian homies but
 
 
asian homies but
you made your decision all right you
 
 
you made your decision all right you
 
 
you made your decision all right you
guys ah
 
 
guys ah
 
 
guys ah
we're coming back later on this week
 
 
we're coming back later on this week
 
 
we're coming back later on this week
i promise to have an unexpected ally of
 
 
i promise to have an unexpected ally of
 
 
i promise to have an unexpected ally of
the week this week i promise
 
 
the week this week i promise
 
 
the week this week i promise
all right that's enough um uh taking
 
 
all right that's enough um uh taking
 
 
all right that's enough um uh taking
tabs off but do not stop learning i'm
 
 
tabs off but do not stop learning i'm
 
 
tabs off but do not stop learning i'm
vandalizing junior i'm rachel and
 
 
vandalizing junior i'm rachel and
 
 
vandalizing junior i'm rachel and
lindsay bye guys

 
somber night in chicago's andersonville

 
somber night in chicago's andersonville

 
somber night in chicago's andersonville
as dozens of people came together to

 
as dozens of people came together to

 
as dozens of people came together to
remember elise mallory

 
remember elise mallory

 
remember elise mallory
friends neighbors and strangers lit

 
friends neighbors and strangers lit

 
friends neighbors and strangers lit
candles to honor the 31 year old
 
 
candles to honor the 31 year old
 
 
candles to honor the 31 year old
elise
 
 
elise
 
 
elise
thank you for being my sister
 
 
thank you for being my sister
 
 
thank you for being my sister
my comrade
 
 
my comrade
 
 
my comrade
those who knew mallory say she dedicated
 
 
those who knew mallory say she dedicated
 
 
those who knew mallory say she dedicated
her life to advocating for the lgbtq
 
 
her life to advocating for the lgbtq
 
 
her life to advocating for the lgbtq
community and black trans woman
 
 
community and black trans woman
 
 
community and black trans woman
we will continue your legacy
 
 
we will continue your legacy
 
 
we will continue your legacy
by taking care of one another the
 
 
by taking care of one another the
 
 
by taking care of one another the
beloved activists worked for different
 
 
beloved activists worked for different
 
 
beloved activists worked for different
groups fighting for equality and
 
 
groups fighting for equality and
 
 
groups fighting for equality and
inclusion friends described her as
 
 
inclusion friends described her as
 
 
inclusion friends described her as
soft-spoken with a big heart
 
 
soft-spoken with a big heart
 
 
soft-spoken with a big heart
she chose giving people the benefit of
 
 
she chose giving people the benefit of
 
 
she chose giving people the benefit of
the doubt she looked for the good in
 
 
the doubt she looked for the good in
 
 
the doubt she looked for the good in
them she chose compassion
 
 
them she chose compassion
 
 
them she chose compassion
news of her disappearance and death hit
 
 
news of her disappearance and death hit
 
 
news of her disappearance and death hit
the community hard her body was found
 
 
the community hard her body was found
 
 
the community hard her body was found
along the shores of lake michigan in
 
 
along the shores of lake michigan in
 
 
along the shores of lake michigan in
evanston nearly a week after she was
 
 
evanston nearly a week after she was
 
 
evanston nearly a week after she was
first reported missing this is one of my
 
 
first reported missing this is one of my
 
 
first reported missing this is one of my
biggest fears
 
 
 
 
someone said to me that we are
 
 
someone said to me that we are
 
 
someone said to me that we are
what in a way watching our own deaths
 
 
what in a way watching our own deaths
 
 
what in a way watching our own deaths
today parker haynes served on the
 
 
today parker haynes served on the
 
 
today parker haynes served on the
chicago therapy collective board with
 
 
chicago therapy collective board with
 
 
chicago therapy collective board with
mallory and says she left a mark and now
 
 
mallory and says she left a mark and now
 
 
mallory and says she left a mark and now
a void that can't be filled
 
 
a void that can't be filled
 
 
a void that can't be filled
i just learned a lot about how to
 
 
i just learned a lot about how to
 
 
i just learned a lot about how to
live and fight and
 
 
live and fight and
 
 
live and fight and
elise had just a really beautiful way of
 
 
elise had just a really beautiful way of
 
 
elise had just a really beautiful way of
wording things haynes hopes he could
 
 
wording things haynes hopes he could
 
 
wording things haynes hopes he could
speak to her one last time to comfort
 
 
speak to her one last time to comfort
 
 
speak to her one last time to comfort
her
 
 
her
 
 
her
stay
 
 
stay
 
 
stay
thank you
 
 
 
 
we love you for now her friends family
 
 
we love you for now her friends family
 
 
we love you for now her friends family
and colleagues say they will carry on
 
 
and colleagues say they will carry on
 
 
and colleagues say they will carry on
her legacy as they continue to fight
 
 
 
 
thanks for watching our youtube channel
 
 
thanks for watching our youtube channel
 
 
thanks for watching our youtube channel
follow today's top stories and breaking
 
 
follow today's top stories and breaking
 
 
follow today's top stories and breaking
news by downloading the nbc news app
 
 
 
 
you
 
 
governor spencer cox has vetoed the bill

 
governor spencer cox has vetoed the bill

 
governor spencer cox has vetoed the bill
that bans transgender children from

 
that bans transgender children from

 
that bans transgender children from
playing school sports now the utah state

 
playing school sports now the utah state

 
playing school sports now the utah state
legislature is planning to override it

 
legislature is planning to override it

 
legislature is planning to override it
fox 13 news political reporter ben
 
 
fox 13 news political reporter ben
 
 
fox 13 news political reporter ben
winslow broke the story earlier today
 
 
winslow broke the story earlier today
 
 
winslow broke the story earlier today
he's on capitol hill with the latest
 
 
he's on capitol hill with the latest
 
 
he's on capitol hill with the latest
as he threatened to do governor cox
 
 
as he threatened to do governor cox
 
 
as he threatened to do governor cox
vetoed house bill 11 but here on capitol
 
 
vetoed house bill 11 but here on capitol
 
 
vetoed house bill 11 but here on capitol
hill the house and senate believe they
 
 
hill the house and senate believe they
 
 
hill the house and senate believe they
flipped enough votes for an override
 
 
flipped enough votes for an override
 
 
flipped enough votes for an override
that will happen on friday
 
 
that will happen on friday
 
 
that will happen on friday
the bill will be changed in a special
 
 
the bill will be changed in a special
 
 
the bill will be changed in a special
session there will still be a ban in
 
 
session there will still be a ban in
 
 
session there will still be a ban in
place but if utah loses an inevitable
 
 
place but if utah loses an inevitable
 
 
place but if utah loses an inevitable
lawsuit the state defaults to a special
 
 
lawsuit the state defaults to a special
 
 
lawsuit the state defaults to a special
commission to determine eligibility if a
 
 
commission to determine eligibility if a
 
 
commission to determine eligibility if a
transgender child wishes to play school
 
 
transgender child wishes to play school
 
 
transgender child wishes to play school
sports governor cox raised concerns that
 
 
sports governor cox raised concerns that
 
 
sports governor cox raised concerns that
school districts would be on the hook
 
 
school districts would be on the hook
 
 
school districts would be on the hook
for millions in legal fees in that
 
 
for millions in legal fees in that
 
 
for millions in legal fees in that
lawsuit but sources tell me the bill
 
 
lawsuit but sources tell me the bill
 
 
lawsuit but sources tell me the bill
will be modified and the legislature
 
 
will be modified and the legislature
 
 
will be modified and the legislature
will come up with five hundred thousand
 
 
will come up with five hundred thousand
 
 
will come up with five hundred thousand
dollars for legal indemnification that
 
 
dollars for legal indemnification that
 
 
dollars for legal indemnification that
would need a future special session
 
 
would need a future special session
 
 
would need a future special session
because it involves taxpayer money some
 
 
because it involves taxpayer money some
 
 
because it involves taxpayer money some
lawmakers are facing tough re-election
 
 
lawmakers are facing tough re-election
 
 
lawmakers are facing tough re-election
battles so they're changing their votes
 
 
battles so they're changing their votes
 
 
battles so they're changing their votes
giving the legislature the ability to
 
 
giving the legislature the ability to
 
 
giving the legislature the ability to
override the governor's veto lgbtq
 
 
override the governor's veto lgbtq
 
 
override the governor's veto lgbtq
rights groups are disappointed it's
 
 
rights groups are disappointed it's
 
 
rights groups are disappointed it's
incredibly disappointing the
 
 
incredibly disappointing the
 
 
incredibly disappointing the
this
 
 
this
 
 
this
boogeyman that we've created these young
 
 
boogeyman that we've created these young
 
 
boogeyman that we've created these young
kids are
 
 
kids are
 
 
kids are
warning so much attention so much extra
 
 
warning so much attention so much extra
 
 
warning so much attention so much extra
effort to try and and shut some young
 
 
effort to try and and shut some young
 
 
effort to try and and shut some young
people out of opportunities seems
 
 
people out of opportunities seems
 
 
people out of opportunities seems
a bit much it's hard not to take it in a
 
 
a bit much it's hard not to take it in a
 
 
a bit much it's hard not to take it in a
way that's seen as disingenuous that
 
 
way that's seen as disingenuous that
 
 
way that's seen as disingenuous that
this is about political advantage this
 
 
this is about political advantage this
 
 
this is about political advantage this
is about
 
 
is about
 
 
is about
anything except for these young people
 
 
anything except for these young people
 
 
anything except for these young people
who we claim to be protecting the house
 
 
who we claim to be protecting the house
 
 
who we claim to be protecting the house
speaker and senate president say they
 
 
speaker and senate president say they
 
 
speaker and senate president say they
want to ensure girls are not edged out
 
 
want to ensure girls are not edged out
 
 
want to ensure girls are not edged out
of sports which is why they want to
 
 
of sports which is why they want to
 
 
of sports which is why they want to
override the governor's veto according
 
 
override the governor's veto according
 
 
override the governor's veto according
to the utah high school activities
 
 
to the utah high school activities
 
 
to the utah high school activities
association there are four transgender
 
 
association there are four transgender
 
 
association there are four transgender
children currently playing sports that
 
 
children currently playing sports that
 
 
children currently playing sports that
this bill impacts out of 75 000 students
 
 
this bill impacts out of 75 000 students
 
 
this bill impacts out of 75 000 students
statewide
 
 
statewide
 
 
statewide
on the hill ben winslow fox 13 news utah

 
this morning we are diving into whether

 
this morning we are diving into whether

 
this morning we are diving into whether
transgender athletes have an unfair

 
transgender athletes have an unfair

 
transgender athletes have an unfair
advantage when it comes to competing

 
advantage when it comes to competing

 
advantage when it comes to competing
against female athletes doctors say it

 
against female athletes doctors say it

 
against female athletes doctors say it
really comes down to case by case and
 
 
really comes down to case by case and
 
 
really comes down to case by case and
when transgender athletes have a
 
 
when transgender athletes have a
 
 
when transgender athletes have a
physical change surgery here with more
 
 
physical change surgery here with more
 
 
physical change surgery here with more
context is wptv's derrick lowe derek
 
 
context is wptv's derrick lowe derek
 
 
context is wptv's derrick lowe derek
good morning to you holly a big
 
 
good morning to you holly a big
 
 
good morning to you holly a big
determining factor as you mentioned in
 
 
determining factor as you mentioned in
 
 
determining factor as you mentioned in
this equation is the time and also the
 
 
this equation is the time and also the
 
 
this equation is the time and also the
transgender athletes history before
 
 
transgender athletes history before
 
 
transgender athletes history before
undergoing that gender changing surgery
 
 
undergoing that gender changing surgery
 
 
undergoing that gender changing surgery
doctors say that transgender athletes
 
 
doctors say that transgender athletes
 
 
doctors say that transgender athletes
could retain muscle mass up to four
 
 
could retain muscle mass up to four
 
 
could retain muscle mass up to four
years after that surgery however without
 
 
years after that surgery however without
 
 
years after that surgery however without
normal male testosterone production
 
 
normal male testosterone production
 
 
normal male testosterone production
those muscles would not sustain that
 
 
those muscles would not sustain that
 
 
those muscles would not sustain that
same amount of strength earlier this
 
 
same amount of strength earlier this
 
 
same amount of strength earlier this
week governor ron desantis declared
 
 
week governor ron desantis declared
 
 
week governor ron desantis declared
sarasota native emma wyant the winner of
 
 
sarasota native emma wyant the winner of
 
 
sarasota native emma wyant the winner of
a ncaa swimming title over transgender
 
 
a ncaa swimming title over transgender
 
 
a ncaa swimming title over transgender
athlete leah thomas thomas a former male
 
 
athlete leah thomas thomas a former male
 
 
athlete leah thomas thomas a former male
swimmer at the university of
 
 
swimmer at the university of
 
 
swimmer at the university of
pennsylvania beat wyant who won a silver
 
 
pennsylvania beat wyant who won a silver
 
 
pennsylvania beat wyant who won a silver
medal at the tokyo olympics by more than
 
 
medal at the tokyo olympics by more than
 
 
medal at the tokyo olympics by more than
one second
 
 
one second
 
 
one second
i think as we just spent a long time
 
 
i think as we just spent a long time
 
 
i think as we just spent a long time
discussing it would be a case-by-case
 
 
discussing it would be a case-by-case
 
 
discussing it would be a case-by-case
issue depending on how long you've been
 
 
issue depending on how long you've been
 
 
issue depending on how long you've been
in you know
 
 
in you know
 
 
in you know
how much how long did you spend as a
 
 
how much how long did you spend as a
 
 
how much how long did you spend as a
male before you became a female how much
 
 
male before you became a female how much
 
 
male before you became a female how much
muscle mass did you develop as a male
 
 
muscle mass did you develop as a male
 
 
muscle mass did you develop as a male
before you became a female
 
 
before you became a female
 
 
before you became a female
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
so it would be it would be really hard
 
 
so it would be it would be really hard
 
 
so it would be it would be really hard
to have a cut and dry so but you have to
 
 
to have a cut and dry so but you have to
 
 
to have a cut and dry so but you have to
have some kind of formula to begin with
 
 
have some kind of formula to begin with
 
 
have some kind of formula to begin with
last year governor ron desantis signed a
 
 
last year governor ron desantis signed a
 
 
last year governor ron desantis signed a
bill banning transgender athletes from
 
 
bill banning transgender athletes from
 
 
bill banning transgender athletes from
competing in female sports here in
 
 
competing in female sports here in
 
 
competing in female sports here in
florida making females eligibility to
 
 
florida making females eligibility to
 
 
florida making females eligibility to
compete based on their biological sex
 
 
compete based on their biological sex
 
 
compete based on their biological sex
given at birth

 
in certain conditions a more complex

 
in certain conditions a more complex

 
in certain conditions a more complex
reconstruction is required known as an

 
reconstruction is required known as an

 
reconstruction is required known as an
epididymal vez hasta me or

 
epididymal vez hasta me or

 
epididymal vez hasta me or
vasoepididymostomy the animation

 
vasoepididymostomy the animation

 
vasoepididymostomy the animation
provides a brief overview of the
 
 
provides a brief overview of the
 
 
provides a brief overview of the
relevant anatomy with the vas deferens
 
 
relevant anatomy with the vas deferens
 
 
relevant anatomy with the vas deferens
prior vasectomy site epididymis and
 
 
prior vasectomy site epididymis and
 
 
prior vasectomy site epididymis and
testicle highlighted
 
 
 
 
this procedure begins in a similar
 
 
this procedure begins in a similar
 
 
this procedure begins in a similar
manner to a vasovasostomy a midline
 
 
manner to a vasovasostomy a midline
 
 
manner to a vasovasostomy a midline
scrotal incision is made after which the
 
 
scrotal incision is made after which the
 
 
scrotal incision is made after which the
obstructed Vasil segment is removed
 
 
 
 
and the fluid on the testicular side is
 
 
and the fluid on the testicular side is
 
 
and the fluid on the testicular side is
sampled under microscopy in this
 
 
sampled under microscopy in this
 
 
sampled under microscopy in this
particular case microscopic analysis
 
 
particular case microscopic analysis
 
 
particular case microscopic analysis
does not demonstrate the presence of any
 
 
does not demonstrate the presence of any
 
 
does not demonstrate the presence of any
sperm in that scenario we would proceed
 
 
sperm in that scenario we would proceed
 
 
sperm in that scenario we would proceed
with an epididymal vez ostomy the
 
 
with an epididymal vez ostomy the
 
 
with an epididymal vez ostomy the
scrotal midline incision is extended
 
 
scrotal midline incision is extended
 
 
scrotal midline incision is extended
after which the testicle is delivered
 
 
after which the testicle is delivered
 
 
after which the testicle is delivered
through the wound this permits better
 
 
through the wound this permits better
 
 
through the wound this permits better
visualization of the epididymis
 
 
 
 
next the epididymis is incised and an
 
 
next the epididymis is incised and an
 
 
next the epididymis is incised and an
obstructed epididymal tubule is selected
 
 
obstructed epididymal tubule is selected
 
 
obstructed epididymal tubule is selected
for anastomosis the vas deferens is
 
 
for anastomosis the vas deferens is
 
 
for anastomosis the vas deferens is
brought down to the level of the
 
 
brought down to the level of the
 
 
brought down to the level of the
epididymis and secured using some
 
 
epididymis and secured using some
 
 
epididymis and secured using some
initial stitches
 
 
 
 
two double armed smaller sutures are
 
 
two double armed smaller sutures are
 
 
two double armed smaller sutures are
then placed into the epididymal tubule
 
 
then placed into the epididymal tubule
 
 
then placed into the epididymal tubule
after which the epididymal tubule is
 
 
after which the epididymal tubule is
 
 
after which the epididymal tubule is
incised the fluid is again sampled and
 
 
incised the fluid is again sampled and
 
 
incised the fluid is again sampled and
this time demonstrates the presence of
 
 
this time demonstrates the presence of
 
 
this time demonstrates the presence of
normal sperm once sperm are identified
 
 
normal sperm once sperm are identified
 
 
normal sperm once sperm are identified
the stitches are then placed inside the
 
 
the stitches are then placed inside the
 
 
the stitches are then placed inside the
lumen of the vas deferens and the vas
 
 
lumen of the vas deferens and the vas
 
 
lumen of the vas deferens and the vas
deferens is tied down to the epididymal
 
 
deferens is tied down to the epididymal
 
 
deferens is tied down to the epididymal
tubule additional stitches are then
 
 
tubule additional stitches are then
 
 
tubule additional stitches are then
placed to secure the vas deferens to the
 
 
placed to secure the vas deferens to the
 
 
placed to secure the vas deferens to the
epididymal sheath for additional
 
 
epididymal sheath for additional
 
 
epididymal sheath for additional
strength this final animation
 
 
strength this final animation
 
 
strength this final animation
demonstrates the post-operative result
 
 
demonstrates the post-operative result
 
 
demonstrates the post-operative result
with the attachment of the vas deferens
 
 
with the attachment of the vas deferens
 
 
with the attachment of the vas deferens
to the epididymis directly
 
 
 
 
you

 
hello guys it's me nikki hello

 
hello guys it's me nikki hello

 
hello guys it's me nikki hello
today's video is very near and dear to

 
today's video is very near and dear to

 
today's video is very near and dear to
my heart

 
my heart

 
my heart
and will pack a lot of emotion on my

 
and will pack a lot of emotion on my

 
and will pack a lot of emotion on my
side ever since i came out back in
 
 
side ever since i came out back in
 
 
side ever since i came out back in
january
 
 
january
 
 
january
and got bombarded with your love and
 
 
and got bombarded with your love and
 
 
and got bombarded with your love and
acceptance and just
 
 
acceptance and just
 
 
acceptance and just
i got welcomed into the rainbow family
 
 
i got welcomed into the rainbow family
 
 
i got welcomed into the rainbow family
like no other i can already feel the
 
 
like no other i can already feel the
 
 
like no other i can already feel the
tears coming
 
 
tears coming
 
 
tears coming
a lot of people out there were like oh
 
 
a lot of people out there were like oh
 
 
a lot of people out there were like oh
my god can you please do
 
 
my god can you please do
 
 
my god can you please do
a facial feminization makeup tutorial
 
 
a facial feminization makeup tutorial
 
 
a facial feminization makeup tutorial
now what that means if you're
 
 
now what that means if you're
 
 
now what that means if you're
a trans person and you want to look more
 
 
a trans person and you want to look more
 
 
a trans person and you want to look more
feminine what are like the perfect
 
 
feminine what are like the perfect
 
 
feminine what are like the perfect
techniques to
 
 
techniques to
 
 
techniques to
kneel down that look and for the longest
 
 
kneel down that look and for the longest
 
 
kneel down that look and for the longest
time
 
 
time
 
 
time
it it just i'm going to say i wasn't
 
 
it it just i'm going to say i wasn't
 
 
it it just i'm going to say i wasn't
ready for it i wasn't ready to openly
 
 
ready for it i wasn't ready to openly
 
 
ready for it i wasn't ready to openly
speak about my past like that and over
 
 
speak about my past like that and over
 
 
speak about my past like that and over
the last few months i've
 
 
the last few months i've
 
 
the last few months i've
really started to love myself in such a
 
 
really started to love myself in such a
 
 
really started to love myself in such a
different way and you guys have noticed
 
 
different way and you guys have noticed
 
 
different way and you guys have noticed
you guys leave it down in the comments
 
 
you guys leave it down in the comments
 
 
you guys leave it down in the comments
in so many videos how you
 
 
in so many videos how you
 
 
in so many videos how you
see my self-acceptance growing how you
 
 
see my self-acceptance growing how you
 
 
see my self-acceptance growing how you
see myself love
 
 
see myself love
 
 
see myself love
coming back for today's video i feel
 
 
coming back for today's video i feel
 
 
coming back for today's video i feel
like i'm finally ready to sit down
 
 
like i'm finally ready to sit down
 
 
like i'm finally ready to sit down
and tell you techniques and ways to make
 
 
and tell you techniques and ways to make
 
 
and tell you techniques and ways to make
your face look more feminine now
 
 
your face look more feminine now
 
 
your face look more feminine now
this comes with a huge huge disclaimer i
 
 
this comes with a huge huge disclaimer i
 
 
this comes with a huge huge disclaimer i
think
 
 
think
 
 
think
it is disgusting that we live in a world
 
 
it is disgusting that we live in a world
 
 
it is disgusting that we live in a world
where only if you look cis
 
 
where only if you look cis
 
 
where only if you look cis
where you look like a biological woman
 
 
where you look like a biological woman
 
 
where you look like a biological woman
you get to pass
 
 
you get to pass
 
 
you get to pass
as a trans person that is unacceptable
 
 
as a trans person that is unacceptable
 
 
as a trans person that is unacceptable
and i'm still
 
 
and i'm still
 
 
and i'm still
fighting for that every single day but
 
 
fighting for that every single day but
 
 
fighting for that every single day but
this video
 
 
this video
 
 
this video
isn't for society this video isn't to
 
 
isn't for society this video isn't to
 
 
isn't for society this video isn't to
please others
 
 
please others
 
 
please others
this is a video for anybody out there to
 
 
this is a video for anybody out there to
 
 
this is a video for anybody out there to
find new techniques to
 
 
find new techniques to
 
 
find new techniques to
alter your look because at the end of
 
 
alter your look because at the end of
 
 
alter your look because at the end of
the day that's what makeup is for
 
 
the day that's what makeup is for
 
 
the day that's what makeup is for
in my opinion makeup is here to make us
 
 
in my opinion makeup is here to make us
 
 
in my opinion makeup is here to make us
feel powerful strong
 
 
feel powerful strong
 
 
feel powerful strong
confident it isn't a layer of paint
 
 
confident it isn't a layer of paint
 
 
confident it isn't a layer of paint
to hide ourselves or to pass for society
 
 
to hide ourselves or to pass for society
 
 
to hide ourselves or to pass for society
no it is for
 
 
no it is for
 
 
no it is for
us so before i start off with this
 
 
us so before i start off with this
 
 
us so before i start off with this
tutorial i want to say that you
 
 
tutorial i want to say that you
 
 
tutorial i want to say that you
are beautiful look at yourself in the
 
 
are beautiful look at yourself in the
 
 
are beautiful look at yourself in the
mirror and tell yourself that you
 
 
mirror and tell yourself that you
 
 
mirror and tell yourself that you
are beautiful and yes it is fun to play
 
 
are beautiful and yes it is fun to play
 
 
are beautiful and yes it is fun to play
with makeup and yes it is fun to alter
 
 
with makeup and yes it is fun to alter
 
 
with makeup and yes it is fun to alter
certain features of your face but at the
 
 
certain features of your face but at the
 
 
certain features of your face but at the
end of the day
 
 
end of the day
 
 
end of the day
makeup washes off and you have to love
 
 
makeup washes off and you have to love
 
 
makeup washes off and you have to love
yourself
 
 
yourself
 
 
yourself
before you put anything on also please
 
 
before you put anything on also please
 
 
before you put anything on also please
don't think that if you're a biological
 
 
don't think that if you're a biological
 
 
don't think that if you're a biological
woman
 
 
woman
 
 
woman
a biological man who's not even
 
 
a biological man who's not even
 
 
a biological man who's not even
interested in makeup
 
 
interested in makeup
 
 
interested in makeup
this video is for everybody who just
 
 
this video is for everybody who just
 
 
this video is for everybody who just
wants to learn new techniques
 
 
wants to learn new techniques
 
 
wants to learn new techniques
and have fun with makeup so if you're
 
 
and have fun with makeup so if you're
 
 
and have fun with makeup so if you're
excited let's go ahead grab the brushes
 
 
excited let's go ahead grab the brushes
 
 
excited let's go ahead grab the brushes
grab the makeup
 
 
grab the makeup
 
 
grab the makeup
and let's get painted
 
 
and let's get painted
 
 
and let's get painted
 
 
 
 
before we get started with all this
 
 
before we get started with all this
 
 
before we get started with all this
makeup fun i do want you to know that
 
 
makeup fun i do want you to know that
 
 
makeup fun i do want you to know that
later on in this video i'll be teaming
 
 
later on in this video i'll be teaming
 
 
later on in this video i'll be teaming
up with cavity
 
 
up with cavity
 
 
up with cavity
vegan beauty to complete my brows as
 
 
vegan beauty to complete my brows as
 
 
vegan beauty to complete my brows as
well as some tricks for the eyes
 
 
well as some tricks for the eyes
 
 
well as some tricks for the eyes
so know that that is coming kvd vegan
 
 
so know that that is coming kvd vegan
 
 
so know that that is coming kvd vegan
beauty is a new brand
 
 
beauty is a new brand
 
 
beauty is a new brand
that relaunched earlier this year i've
 
 
that relaunched earlier this year i've
 
 
that relaunched earlier this year i've
always been obsessed with their brow
 
 
always been obsessed with their brow
 
 
always been obsessed with their brow
pencils as well as their liner but
 
 
pencils as well as their liner but
 
 
pencils as well as their liner but
we'll get to that later on when it comes
 
 
we'll get to that later on when it comes
 
 
we'll get to that later on when it comes
to feminizing the face
 
 
to feminizing the face
 
 
to feminizing the face
and really altering your look i think
 
 
and really altering your look i think
 
 
and really altering your look i think
it's very important to look at yourself
 
 
it's very important to look at yourself
 
 
it's very important to look at yourself
in the mirror
 
 
in the mirror
 
 
in the mirror
and look at portions of your face that
 
 
and look at portions of your face that
 
 
and look at portions of your face that
you want to enhance
 
 
you want to enhance
 
 
you want to enhance
and portions that you want to kind of
 
 
and portions that you want to kind of
 
 
and portions that you want to kind of
alter a bit more now of course
 
 
alter a bit more now of course
 
 
alter a bit more now of course
yes there are techniques to make your
 
 
yes there are techniques to make your
 
 
yes there are techniques to make your
face look more feminized
 
 
face look more feminized
 
 
face look more feminized
but at the end of the day every face is
 
 
but at the end of the day every face is
 
 
but at the end of the day every face is
different and you may have
 
 
different and you may have
 
 
different and you may have
other needs than other people out there
 
 
other needs than other people out there
 
 
other needs than other people out there
i feel like the main goal when you want
 
 
i feel like the main goal when you want
 
 
i feel like the main goal when you want
to
 
 
to
 
 
to
feminize the face is to create roundness
 
 
feminize the face is to create roundness
 
 
feminize the face is to create roundness
is to sort of flatten out all the harsh
 
 
is to sort of flatten out all the harsh
 
 
is to sort of flatten out all the harsh
edges
 
 
edges
 
 
edges
and soften the features but again that
 
 
and soften the features but again that
 
 
and soften the features but again that
is totally a personal experience because
 
 
is totally a personal experience because
 
 
is totally a personal experience because
when you look at me
 
 
when you look at me
 
 
when you look at me
i need structure i'm a balloon the first
 
 
i need structure i'm a balloon the first
 
 
i need structure i'm a balloon the first
step
 
 
step
 
 
step
always is primer not to prime is a crime
 
 
always is primer not to prime is a crime
 
 
always is primer not to prime is a crime
the next step is color correcting we've
 
 
the next step is color correcting we've
 
 
the next step is color correcting we've
pretty much all seen like the orange
 
 
pretty much all seen like the orange
 
 
pretty much all seen like the orange
beards the orange under eyes
 
 
beards the orange under eyes
 
 
beards the orange under eyes
on instagram and pretty much everywhere
 
 
on instagram and pretty much everywhere
 
 
on instagram and pretty much everywhere
i've done it myself as well
 
 
i've done it myself as well
 
 
i've done it myself as well
color correction is used to cancel out
 
 
color correction is used to cancel out
 
 
color correction is used to cancel out
shadows on the face
 
 
shadows on the face
 
 
shadows on the face
if you have a natural five o'clock
 
 
if you have a natural five o'clock
 
 
if you have a natural five o'clock
shadow if you use an orange color
 
 
shadow if you use an orange color
 
 
shadow if you use an orange color
corrector that will kind of neutralize
 
 
corrector that will kind of neutralize
 
 
corrector that will kind of neutralize
the bluish shadowish tones on the face
 
 
the bluish shadowish tones on the face
 
 
the bluish shadowish tones on the face
you should always do this before you do
 
 
you should always do this before you do
 
 
you should always do this before you do
foundation or concealer so
 
 
foundation or concealer so
 
 
foundation or concealer so
everything is neutralized i'm taking the
 
 
everything is neutralized i'm taking the
 
 
everything is neutralized i'm taking the
dragon beauty one and you only
 
 
dragon beauty one and you only
 
 
dragon beauty one and you only
need trust me when i say the tiniest
 
 
need trust me when i say the tiniest
 
 
need trust me when i say the tiniest
tiniest bit you pretty much only want to
 
 
tiniest bit you pretty much only want to
 
 
tiniest bit you pretty much only want to
neutralize those bluey shadowy tones i'm
 
 
neutralize those bluey shadowy tones i'm
 
 
neutralize those bluey shadowy tones i'm
gonna do
 
 
gonna do
 
 
gonna do
a little bit on the corner of my mouth
 
 
a little bit on the corner of my mouth
 
 
a little bit on the corner of my mouth
here over here
 
 
here over here
 
 
here over here
here just a little bit you see and under
 
 
here just a little bit you see and under
 
 
here just a little bit you see and under
my eyes
 
 
my eyes
 
 
my eyes
and then using a brush i'm softly gonna
 
 
and then using a brush i'm softly gonna
 
 
and then using a brush i'm softly gonna
stipple that in
 
 
stipple that in
 
 
stipple that in
diffuse it see it's already too much but
 
 
diffuse it see it's already too much but
 
 
diffuse it see it's already too much but
that'll do
 
 
that'll do
 
 
that'll do
under eye tap tap tap in
 
 
under eye tap tap tap in
 
 
under eye tap tap tap in
now the number one trick to make sure
 
 
now the number one trick to make sure
 
 
now the number one trick to make sure
that this stays in place and you're
 
 
that this stays in place and you're
 
 
that this stays in place and you're
actually correcting and not
 
 
actually correcting and not
 
 
actually correcting and not
smearing everything around once you go
 
 
smearing everything around once you go
 
 
smearing everything around once you go
in with your concealer is take the
 
 
in with your concealer is take the
 
 
in with your concealer is take the
tiniest bit of face powder on a puff
 
 
tiniest bit of face powder on a puff
 
 
tiniest bit of face powder on a puff
really work it into the puff
 
 
really work it into the puff
 
 
really work it into the puff
and lightly set the places you color
 
 
and lightly set the places you color
 
 
and lightly set the places you color
corrected
 
 
corrected
 
 
corrected
because what this will do is set the
 
 
because what this will do is set the
 
 
because what this will do is set the
color correction in place
 
 
color correction in place
 
 
color correction in place
so that when you go over it with your
 
 
so that when you go over it with your
 
 
so that when you go over it with your
foundation and concealer
 
 
foundation and concealer
 
 
foundation and concealer
it doesn't drag out and lose its purpose
 
 
it doesn't drag out and lose its purpose
 
 
it doesn't drag out and lose its purpose
for foundation i suggest going for a
 
 
for foundation i suggest going for a
 
 
for foundation i suggest going for a
long wear
 
 
long wear
 
 
long wear
more mattifying foundation because if
 
 
more mattifying foundation because if
 
 
more mattifying foundation because if
you deal with a lot of texture on the
 
 
you deal with a lot of texture on the
 
 
you deal with a lot of texture on the
skin
 
 
skin
 
 
skin
using a dewy foundation is only going to
 
 
using a dewy foundation is only going to
 
 
using a dewy foundation is only going to
highlight the texture whereas if you use
 
 
highlight the texture whereas if you use
 
 
highlight the texture whereas if you use
a matte it's going to blur it out a bit
 
 
a matte it's going to blur it out a bit
 
 
a matte it's going to blur it out a bit
i'm using the juvia's place i am magic
 
 
i'm using the juvia's place i am magic
 
 
i'm using the juvia's place i am magic
foundation i'm just going to start
 
 
foundation i'm just going to start
 
 
foundation i'm just going to start
bouncing this onto the skin and you'll
 
 
bouncing this onto the skin and you'll
 
 
bouncing this onto the skin and you'll
see that as soon as the foundation
 
 
see that as soon as the foundation
 
 
see that as soon as the foundation
hits the skin it takes away that orange
 
 
hits the skin it takes away that orange
 
 
hits the skin it takes away that orange
and you are completely
 
 
and you are completely
 
 
and you are completely
neutralized see nice and even
 
 
neutralized see nice and even
 
 
neutralized see nice and even
this to me is so satisfying just
 
 
this to me is so satisfying just
 
 
this to me is so satisfying just
cancelling out the orange but
 
 
cancelling out the orange but
 
 
cancelling out the orange but
left with not a shadow in sight if
 
 
left with not a shadow in sight if
 
 
left with not a shadow in sight if
you're new to makeup
 
 
you're new to makeup
 
 
you're new to makeup
the number one thing you want to do with
 
 
the number one thing you want to do with
 
 
the number one thing you want to do with
a beauty sponge and your foundation
 
 
a beauty sponge and your foundation
 
 
a beauty sponge and your foundation
is tap the product in as soon as you
 
 
is tap the product in as soon as you
 
 
is tap the product in as soon as you
like smear it on
 
 
like smear it on
 
 
like smear it on
you're actually destroying all the
 
 
you're actually destroying all the
 
 
you're actually destroying all the
pigment in that lovely product so if you
 
 
pigment in that lovely product so if you
 
 
pigment in that lovely product so if you
tap it on you're going to keep all the
 
 
tap it on you're going to keep all the
 
 
tap it on you're going to keep all the
pigment keep the coverage and make it
 
 
pigment keep the coverage and make it
 
 
pigment keep the coverage and make it
look
 
 
look
 
 
look
flawless now when it comes to concealer
 
 
flawless now when it comes to concealer
 
 
flawless now when it comes to concealer
it is very
 
 
it is very
 
 
it is very
very important to again assess your face
 
 
very important to again assess your face
 
 
very important to again assess your face
look at it and see what your face needs
 
 
look at it and see what your face needs
 
 
look at it and see what your face needs
i personally think that if you keep
 
 
i personally think that if you keep
 
 
i personally think that if you keep
everything a bit more towards the center
 
 
everything a bit more towards the center
 
 
everything a bit more towards the center
of the face
 
 
of the face
 
 
of the face
it's gonna appear more feminine if you
 
 
it's gonna appear more feminine if you
 
 
it's gonna appear more feminine if you
are rounder like i
 
 
are rounder like i
 
 
are rounder like i
am you can get away with creating more
 
 
am you can get away with creating more
 
 
am you can get away with creating more
like angles but if you already are
 
 
like angles but if you already are
 
 
like angles but if you already are
very structured and defined i would go
 
 
very structured and defined i would go
 
 
very structured and defined i would go
softer and keep it more towards
 
 
softer and keep it more towards
 
 
softer and keep it more towards
the center of the face so for under eye
 
 
the center of the face so for under eye
 
 
the center of the face so for under eye
concealer
 
 
concealer
 
 
concealer
you can really build some up on the
 
 
you can really build some up on the
 
 
you can really build some up on the
inner portion here
 
 
inner portion here
 
 
inner portion here
and then if you want to create more of
 
 
and then if you want to create more of
 
 
and then if you want to create more of
that angle and that lift
 
 
that angle and that lift
 
 
that angle and that lift
you can apply some right here to the
 
 
you can apply some right here to the
 
 
you can apply some right here to the
outer portion of the eye
 
 
outer portion of the eye
 
 
outer portion of the eye
underneath the mouth towards the sides
 
 
underneath the mouth towards the sides
 
 
underneath the mouth towards the sides
top of the lip
 
 
top of the lip
 
 
top of the lip
center of the chin and a bit on the
 
 
center of the chin and a bit on the
 
 
center of the chin and a bit on the
center of the forehead
 
 
center of the forehead
 
 
center of the forehead
to already start our highlighting
 
 
to already start our highlighting
 
 
to already start our highlighting
process okay so now let's bounce this in
 
 
process okay so now let's bounce this in
 
 
process okay so now let's bounce this in
when bouncing in your concealer you want
 
 
when bouncing in your concealer you want
 
 
when bouncing in your concealer you want
to just tap at the
 
 
to just tap at the
 
 
to just tap at the
product you don't want to necessarily
 
 
product you don't want to necessarily
 
 
product you don't want to necessarily
move it around too much
 
 
move it around too much
 
 
move it around too much
because you strategically placed your
 
 
because you strategically placed your
 
 
because you strategically placed your
concealer
 
 
concealer
 
 
concealer
in the areas that you want to lighten up
 
 
in the areas that you want to lighten up
 
 
in the areas that you want to lighten up
so now if i would drag it all across the
 
 
so now if i would drag it all across the
 
 
so now if i would drag it all across the
face
 
 
face
 
 
face
the method behind lighting things up and
 
 
the method behind lighting things up and
 
 
the method behind lighting things up and
making things
 
 
making things
 
 
making things
look more highlighted will be destroyed
 
 
look more highlighted will be destroyed
 
 
look more highlighted will be destroyed
once i tap in this concealer it is key
 
 
once i tap in this concealer it is key
 
 
once i tap in this concealer it is key
it is very important to straight away
 
 
it is very important to straight away
 
 
it is very important to straight away
set the under eye using
 
 
set the under eye using
 
 
set the under eye using
loose powder this to lock in the fantasy
 
 
loose powder this to lock in the fantasy
 
 
loose powder this to lock in the fantasy
and make it long-lasting for the rest of
 
 
and make it long-lasting for the rest of
 
 
and make it long-lasting for the rest of
the day so i give my entire face
 
 
the day so i give my entire face
 
 
the day so i give my entire face
one last tap i pick up some powder on my
 
 
one last tap i pick up some powder on my
 
 
one last tap i pick up some powder on my
damp
 
 
damp
 
 
damp
beauty sponge the powder that i pick up
 
 
beauty sponge the powder that i pick up
 
 
beauty sponge the powder that i pick up
i really work into the sponge with the
 
 
i really work into the sponge with the
 
 
i really work into the sponge with the
palm of my hand
 
 
palm of my hand
 
 
palm of my hand
and this is going to go underneath the
 
 
and this is going to go underneath the
 
 
and this is going to go underneath the
eye
 
 
eye
 
 
eye
down to the sides of the nose corner of
 
 
down to the sides of the nose corner of
 
 
down to the sides of the nose corner of
the mouth
 
 
the mouth
 
 
the mouth
and then bringing it back towards the
 
 
and then bringing it back towards the
 
 
and then bringing it back towards the
eye as for the rest of the face i like
 
 
eye as for the rest of the face i like
 
 
eye as for the rest of the face i like
to use a waterproof
 
 
to use a waterproof
 
 
to use a waterproof
long lasting very mattifying powder to
 
 
long lasting very mattifying powder to
 
 
long lasting very mattifying powder to
get rid of all the texture get rid of
 
 
get rid of all the texture get rid of
 
 
get rid of all the texture get rid of
all the pores this one is by dermacolor
 
 
all the pores this one is by dermacolor
 
 
all the pores this one is by dermacolor
i just picked that up using my powder
 
 
i just picked that up using my powder
 
 
i just picked that up using my powder
puff
 
 
puff
 
 
puff
and i set my entire face also very
 
 
and i set my entire face also very
 
 
and i set my entire face also very
important
 
 
important
 
 
important
keep tapping that powder in you don't
 
 
keep tapping that powder in you don't
 
 
keep tapping that powder in you don't
want to swipe it in
 
 
want to swipe it in
 
 
want to swipe it in
swoop it in brush it in you want to tap
 
 
swoop it in brush it in you want to tap
 
 
swoop it in brush it in you want to tap
it onto the skin to
 
 
it onto the skin to
 
 
it onto the skin to
lock everything in place are we ready
 
 
lock everything in place are we ready
 
 
lock everything in place are we ready
for the next step let's move on to brows
 
 
for the next step let's move on to brows
 
 
for the next step let's move on to brows
brows are a super super personal journey
 
 
brows are a super super personal journey
 
 
brows are a super super personal journey
i feel like back in the days
 
 
i feel like back in the days
 
 
i feel like back in the days
feminine brows were a bit thinner and
 
 
feminine brows were a bit thinner and
 
 
feminine brows were a bit thinner and
more arched
 
 
more arched
 
 
more arched
whereas i feel like nowadays like modern
 
 
whereas i feel like nowadays like modern
 
 
whereas i feel like nowadays like modern
days brows could be anything you like
 
 
days brows could be anything you like
 
 
days brows could be anything you like
now since i pretty much don't have
 
 
now since i pretty much don't have
 
 
now since i pretty much don't have
any brow hair left i like to create a
 
 
any brow hair left i like to create a
 
 
any brow hair left i like to create a
full
 
 
full
 
 
full
bushy fantasy with a little tiny bit of
 
 
bushy fantasy with a little tiny bit of
 
 
bushy fantasy with a little tiny bit of
an arch
 
 
an arch
 
 
an arch
what is very important when it comes to
 
 
what is very important when it comes to
 
 
what is very important when it comes to
the brows though is that they
 
 
the brows though is that they
 
 
the brows though is that they
last oh i remember the days back in high
 
 
last oh i remember the days back in high
 
 
last oh i remember the days back in high
school when we had pe
 
 
school when we had pe
 
 
school when we had pe
and someone rubbed their damn shoulder
 
 
and someone rubbed their damn shoulder
 
 
and someone rubbed their damn shoulder
against my brow
 
 
against my brow
 
 
against my brow
and the entire brow was gone so you want
 
 
and the entire brow was gone so you want
 
 
and the entire brow was gone so you want
a long
 
 
a long
 
 
a long
lasting product that is budge proof
 
 
lasting product that is budge proof
 
 
lasting product that is budge proof
sweat proof
 
 
sweat proof
 
 
sweat proof
waterproof and you can find that in the
 
 
waterproof and you can find that in the
 
 
waterproof and you can find that in the
cavity vegan beauty
 
 
cavity vegan beauty
 
 
cavity vegan beauty
super pomades these come in a bunch of
 
 
super pomades these come in a bunch of
 
 
super pomades these come in a bunch of
colors they come in neutral tones that
 
 
colors they come in neutral tones that
 
 
colors they come in neutral tones that
are actually
 
 
are actually
 
 
are actually
like brow colors but they also come in
 
 
like brow colors but they also come in
 
 
like brow colors but they also come in
funky colors like yellow
 
 
funky colors like yellow
 
 
funky colors like yellow
pink purple green but also white but the
 
 
pink purple green but also white but the
 
 
pink purple green but also white but the
perfect thing about these is is that
 
 
perfect thing about these is is that
 
 
perfect thing about these is is that
they can be used
 
 
they can be used
 
 
they can be used
anywhere on the face you can use this
 
 
anywhere on the face you can use this
 
 
anywhere on the face you can use this
for the brow you can use this as a base
 
 
for the brow you can use this as a base
 
 
for the brow you can use this as a base
for your eye shadow you can use this to
 
 
for your eye shadow you can use this to
 
 
for your eye shadow you can use this to
cut the crease
 
 
cut the crease
 
 
cut the crease
eyeliner you name it so today i'm going
 
 
eyeliner you name it so today i'm going
 
 
eyeliner you name it so today i'm going
to use
 
 
to use
 
 
to use
the super pomade by cavity vegan beauty
 
 
the super pomade by cavity vegan beauty
 
 
the super pomade by cavity vegan beauty
for my brows and i'm using the color
 
 
for my brows and i'm using the color
 
 
for my brows and i'm using the color
taupe
 
 
taupe
 
 
taupe
picking up the pomade on a cavity vegan
 
 
picking up the pomade on a cavity vegan
 
 
picking up the pomade on a cavity vegan
beauty number 70 brush
 
 
beauty number 70 brush
 
 
beauty number 70 brush
and with this i just draw a line
 
 
and with this i just draw a line
 
 
and with this i just draw a line
underneath
 
 
underneath
 
 
underneath
my brow and see how there's like the
 
 
my brow and see how there's like the
 
 
my brow and see how there's like the
slightest arch
 
 
slightest arch
 
 
slightest arch
like the slightest arch going on i've
 
 
like the slightest arch going on i've
 
 
like the slightest arch going on i've
had more arched brows i've had thinner
 
 
had more arched brows i've had thinner
 
 
had more arched brows i've had thinner
brows
 
 
brows
 
 
brows
bushier brows and honestly i've liked
 
 
bushier brows and honestly i've liked
 
 
bushier brows and honestly i've liked
them all
 
 
them all
 
 
them all
but this is kind of like the stage of my
 
 
but this is kind of like the stage of my
 
 
but this is kind of like the stage of my
brow where i'm comfortable with now
 
 
brow where i'm comfortable with now
 
 
brow where i'm comfortable with now
so okay then you also obviously want to
 
 
so okay then you also obviously want to
 
 
so okay then you also obviously want to
create a line at the top
 
 
create a line at the top
 
 
create a line at the top
then using that same super pomade i fill
 
 
then using that same super pomade i fill
 
 
then using that same super pomade i fill
in the
 
 
in the
 
 
in the
entire thing and this will really make
 
 
entire thing and this will really make
 
 
entire thing and this will really make
it long-lasting because this once this
 
 
it long-lasting because this once this
 
 
it long-lasting because this once this
is set
 
 
is set
 
 
is set
it's not going anywhere and then if you
 
 
it's not going anywhere and then if you
 
 
it's not going anywhere and then if you
pick up a little bit more product and
 
 
pick up a little bit more product and
 
 
pick up a little bit more product and
really
 
 
really
 
 
really
pinch the bristles of the brush and make
 
 
pinch the bristles of the brush and make
 
 
pinch the bristles of the brush and make
it super sharp
 
 
it super sharp
 
 
it super sharp
you can draw on individual hairs oh
 
 
you can draw on individual hairs oh
 
 
you can draw on individual hairs oh
i love it okay i'm quickly going to
 
 
i love it okay i'm quickly going to
 
 
i love it okay i'm quickly going to
carve these out with concealer to get a
 
 
carve these out with concealer to get a
 
 
carve these out with concealer to get a
nice
 
 
nice
 
 
nice
perfect clean edge and then let's move
 
 
perfect clean edge and then let's move
 
 
perfect clean edge and then let's move
on to the eyes
 
 
on to the eyes
 
 
on to the eyes
this is the eye we're gonna be creating
 
 
this is the eye we're gonna be creating
 
 
this is the eye we're gonna be creating
today it's very flirty it's very neutral
 
 
today it's very flirty it's very neutral
 
 
today it's very flirty it's very neutral
it has a touch of smokiness
 
 
it has a touch of smokiness
 
 
it has a touch of smokiness
this is a look where i myself feel
 
 
this is a look where i myself feel
 
 
this is a look where i myself feel
super confident in i feel super feminine
 
 
super confident in i feel super feminine
 
 
super confident in i feel super feminine
and powerful the first thing we're going
 
 
and powerful the first thing we're going
 
 
and powerful the first thing we're going
to do is
 
 
to do is
 
 
to do is
prime for eyeshadow today of course i'm
 
 
prime for eyeshadow today of course i'm
 
 
prime for eyeshadow today of course i'm
going to be using my baby this
 
 
going to be using my baby this
 
 
going to be using my baby this
is my palette in collaboration with
 
 
is my palette in collaboration with
 
 
is my palette in collaboration with
beauty bay and it just has all the
 
 
beauty bay and it just has all the
 
 
beauty bay and it just has all the
colors you could dream of
 
 
colors you could dream of
 
 
colors you could dream of
the color i'm going in with is mila
 
 
the color i'm going in with is mila
 
 
the color i'm going in with is mila
which is a warm medium brown
 
 
which is a warm medium brown
 
 
which is a warm medium brown
and overall the shape you want to go for
 
 
and overall the shape you want to go for
 
 
and overall the shape you want to go for
is a more
 
 
is a more
 
 
is a more
rounded smokey eye but again try
 
 
rounded smokey eye but again try
 
 
rounded smokey eye but again try
looking at your features and if you have
 
 
looking at your features and if you have
 
 
looking at your features and if you have
a rounder face you can pull it up
 
 
a rounder face you can pull it up
 
 
a rounder face you can pull it up
and it you can always by the way you can
 
 
and it you can always by the way you can
 
 
and it you can always by the way you can
always pull it out and make it dramatic
 
 
always pull it out and make it dramatic
 
 
always pull it out and make it dramatic
and create the shapes that you like
 
 
and create the shapes that you like
 
 
and create the shapes that you like
in general if you want an eye to be a
 
 
in general if you want an eye to be a
 
 
in general if you want an eye to be a
bit more
 
 
bit more
 
 
bit more
feminine you want to go for rounded
 
 
feminine you want to go for rounded
 
 
feminine you want to go for rounded
shapes blending it
 
 
shapes blending it
 
 
shapes blending it
up into the crease while still keeping
 
 
up into the crease while still keeping
 
 
up into the crease while still keeping
the shape very rounded
 
 
the shape very rounded
 
 
the shape very rounded
okay once that is on i'm taking mila and
 
 
okay once that is on i'm taking mila and
 
 
okay once that is on i'm taking mila and
basic toots i'm using this
 
 
basic toots i'm using this
 
 
basic toots i'm using this
to create some depth on the front of
 
 
to create some depth on the front of
 
 
to create some depth on the front of
the brow and in the crease here now this
 
 
the brow and in the crease here now this
 
 
the brow and in the crease here now this
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
very personal if you like this or not
 
 
very personal if you like this or not
 
 
very personal if you like this or not
for me i feel like it totally changes my
 
 
for me i feel like it totally changes my
 
 
for me i feel like it totally changes my
look it makes my eyes look a bit bigger
 
 
look it makes my eyes look a bit bigger
 
 
look it makes my eyes look a bit bigger
it makes my nose look smaller plus if
 
 
it makes my nose look smaller plus if
 
 
it makes my nose look smaller plus if
your eyes are
 
 
your eyes are
 
 
your eyes are
closer together i wouldn't do this
 
 
closer together i wouldn't do this
 
 
closer together i wouldn't do this
necessarily if your eyes
 
 
necessarily if your eyes
 
 
necessarily if your eyes
are a bit wider apart this is a great
 
 
are a bit wider apart this is a great
 
 
are a bit wider apart this is a great
trick to make everything look a little
 
 
trick to make everything look a little
 
 
trick to make everything look a little
bit more close together
 
 
bit more close together
 
 
bit more close together
you could totally pick up a chrome shade
 
 
you could totally pick up a chrome shade
 
 
you could totally pick up a chrome shade
or a very shiny shade but i want to keep
 
 
or a very shiny shade but i want to keep
 
 
or a very shiny shade but i want to keep
things
 
 
things
 
 
things
matte today so i'm taking basic twists
 
 
matte today so i'm taking basic twists
 
 
matte today so i'm taking basic twists
only
 
 
only
 
 
only
and that is going on that center of the
 
 
and that is going on that center of the
 
 
and that is going on that center of the
lid that we haven't applied anything to
 
 
lid that we haven't applied anything to
 
 
lid that we haven't applied anything to
yet basic toots is
 
 
yet basic toots is
 
 
yet basic toots is
pretty much my skin tone so for me it's
 
 
pretty much my skin tone so for me it's
 
 
pretty much my skin tone so for me it's
going to look
 
 
going to look
 
 
going to look
very close to my skin color but you can
 
 
very close to my skin color but you can
 
 
very close to my skin color but you can
use whatever color you like on here
 
 
use whatever color you like on here
 
 
use whatever color you like on here
okay now i'm dipping into another cavity
 
 
okay now i'm dipping into another cavity
 
 
okay now i'm dipping into another cavity
vegan beauty super pomade this one is in
 
 
vegan beauty super pomade this one is in
 
 
vegan beauty super pomade this one is in
the color
 
 
the color
 
 
the color
walnut and i'm using this as a base
 
 
walnut and i'm using this as a base
 
 
walnut and i'm using this as a base
for my liner so i'm actually picking
 
 
for my liner so i'm actually picking
 
 
for my liner so i'm actually picking
some up on my brush
 
 
some up on my brush
 
 
some up on my brush
and because they are so long wear this
 
 
and because they are so long wear this
 
 
and because they are so long wear this
is exactly what you want to use
 
 
is exactly what you want to use
 
 
is exactly what you want to use
on your eyes to make it last so i picked
 
 
on your eyes to make it last so i picked
 
 
on your eyes to make it last so i picked
them up on my brush and i'm just going
 
 
them up on my brush and i'm just going
 
 
them up on my brush and i'm just going
to buff it
 
 
to buff it
 
 
to buff it
in close to the outer corner
 
 
in close to the outer corner
 
 
in close to the outer corner
of my lashes i want to keep this super
 
 
of my lashes i want to keep this super
 
 
of my lashes i want to keep this super
super soft
 
 
super soft
 
 
super soft
and fluffy just for a bit of shadow it
 
 
and fluffy just for a bit of shadow it
 
 
and fluffy just for a bit of shadow it
blends super easy so these can be used
 
 
blends super easy so these can be used
 
 
blends super easy so these can be used
on the brow
 
 
on the brow
 
 
on the brow
as a base for shadow as an actual
 
 
as a base for shadow as an actual
 
 
as a base for shadow as an actual
eyeliner and then i pick up some 5 a.m
 
 
eyeliner and then i pick up some 5 a.m
 
 
eyeliner and then i pick up some 5 a.m
i really go over top to make that
 
 
i really go over top to make that
 
 
i really go over top to make that
perfect and i'm dipping into the cavity
 
 
perfect and i'm dipping into the cavity
 
 
perfect and i'm dipping into the cavity
vegan beauty tattoo liner
 
 
vegan beauty tattoo liner
 
 
vegan beauty tattoo liner
a cult favorite a lot of people are
 
 
a cult favorite a lot of people are
 
 
a cult favorite a lot of people are
obsessed with this they come in two
 
 
obsessed with this they come in two
 
 
obsessed with this they come in two
colors
 
 
colors
 
 
colors
this is trooper black and matte max
 
 
this is trooper black and matte max
 
 
this is trooper black and matte max
brown and i'm using matte max brown
 
 
brown and i'm using matte max brown
 
 
brown and i'm using matte max brown
today for
 
 
today for
 
 
today for
my wing there's two things you want to
 
 
my wing there's two things you want to
 
 
my wing there's two things you want to
keep in mind when purchasing this
 
 
keep in mind when purchasing this
 
 
keep in mind when purchasing this
before you use it you really want to
 
 
before you use it you really want to
 
 
before you use it you really want to
shake it up
 
 
shake it up
 
 
shake it up
and also what i like to do is store this
 
 
and also what i like to do is store this
 
 
and also what i like to do is store this
upside down in my collection so that all
 
 
upside down in my collection so that all
 
 
upside down in my collection so that all
the ink stays at the bottom at the
 
 
the ink stays at the bottom at the
 
 
the ink stays at the bottom at the
bristles and then once you use it
 
 
bristles and then once you use it
 
 
bristles and then once you use it
it's ready to go and i like to apply a
 
 
it's ready to go and i like to apply a
 
 
it's ready to go and i like to apply a
thin but confident
 
 
thin but confident
 
 
thin but confident
winged liner to just give the eyes that
 
 
winged liner to just give the eyes that
 
 
winged liner to just give the eyes that
little bit more flair that extra
 
 
little bit more flair that extra
 
 
little bit more flair that extra
touch so you start off by drawing a line
 
 
touch so you start off by drawing a line
 
 
touch so you start off by drawing a line
from the
 
 
from the
 
 
from the
last sort of outer lash at the top
 
 
last sort of outer lash at the top
 
 
last sort of outer lash at the top
sort of like flicking that out almost as
 
 
sort of like flicking that out almost as
 
 
sort of like flicking that out almost as
if it is a lash
 
 
if it is a lash
 
 
if it is a lash
and then you want to draw back into the
 
 
and then you want to draw back into the
 
 
and then you want to draw back into the
lid and the great thing is
 
 
lid and the great thing is
 
 
lid and the great thing is
this liner won't go anywhere until you
 
 
this liner won't go anywhere until you
 
 
this liner won't go anywhere until you
take it off
 
 
take it off
 
 
take it off
i'm taking another super pomade this
 
 
i'm taking another super pomade this
 
 
i'm taking another super pomade this
time it's the color
 
 
time it's the color
 
 
time it's the color
bleach and this time around i'm going to
 
 
bleach and this time around i'm going to
 
 
bleach and this time around i'm going to
highlight my inner corners without it
 
 
highlight my inner corners without it
 
 
highlight my inner corners without it
fading because this can also be used as
 
 
fading because this can also be used as
 
 
fading because this can also be used as
a shadow like i said
 
 
a shadow like i said
 
 
a shadow like i said
and this will stay there all day now
 
 
and this will stay there all day now
 
 
and this will stay there all day now
using the tattoo liner and extend
 
 
using the tattoo liner and extend
 
 
using the tattoo liner and extend
the inner corner by creating a nice
 
 
the inner corner by creating a nice
 
 
the inner corner by creating a nice
little point it always makes me feel
 
 
little point it always makes me feel
 
 
little point it always makes me feel
super super confident and it just gives
 
 
super super confident and it just gives
 
 
super super confident and it just gives
that eye that extra sort of like
 
 
that eye that extra sort of like
 
 
that eye that extra sort of like
flirtiness
 
 
flirtiness
 
 
flirtiness
i like nothing too extreme or too much
 
 
i like nothing too extreme or too much
 
 
i like nothing too extreme or too much
but just enough to sort of like pull out
 
 
but just enough to sort of like pull out
 
 
but just enough to sort of like pull out
that inner corner a bit and
 
 
that inner corner a bit and
 
 
that inner corner a bit and
give you that confidence to me it just
 
 
give you that confidence to me it just
 
 
give you that confidence to me it just
pulls my eyes out and makes it more like
 
 
pulls my eyes out and makes it more like
 
 
pulls my eyes out and makes it more like
oh
 
 
oh
 
 
oh
now my number one favorite trick for my
 
 
now my number one favorite trick for my
 
 
now my number one favorite trick for my
eyes and this always makes me feel
 
 
eyes and this always makes me feel
 
 
eyes and this always makes me feel
super super thin is opening up that
 
 
super super thin is opening up that
 
 
super super thin is opening up that
inner corner using a white liner
 
 
inner corner using a white liner
 
 
inner corner using a white liner
today i'm using another super pomade by
 
 
today i'm using another super pomade by
 
 
today i'm using another super pomade by
kvd vegan beauty this one is
 
 
kvd vegan beauty this one is
 
 
kvd vegan beauty this one is
white out and i just draw a line like
 
 
white out and i just draw a line like
 
 
white out and i just draw a line like
close to the black extension on the
 
 
close to the black extension on the
 
 
close to the black extension on the
inner corner
 
 
inner corner
 
 
inner corner
and that just opens up the eyes in such
 
 
and that just opens up the eyes in such
 
 
and that just opens up the eyes in such
a beautiful flattering way it's the best
 
 
a beautiful flattering way it's the best
 
 
a beautiful flattering way it's the best
right here
 
 
 
 
oh i love it this is like the one trick
 
 
oh i love it this is like the one trick
 
 
oh i love it this is like the one trick
i can
 
 
i can
 
 
i can
always pull when i just want to open up
 
 
always pull when i just want to open up
 
 
always pull when i just want to open up
the eyes more and want to feel that
 
 
the eyes more and want to feel that
 
 
the eyes more and want to feel that
feminine
 
 
feminine
 
 
feminine
side hoodie so now it's time for lash
 
 
side hoodie so now it's time for lash
 
 
side hoodie so now it's time for lash
now lashes are really important because
 
 
now lashes are really important because
 
 
now lashes are really important because
i feel like if it's your goal to look
 
 
i feel like if it's your goal to look
 
 
i feel like if it's your goal to look
more feminine and to get that female
 
 
more feminine and to get that female
 
 
more feminine and to get that female
touch
 
 
touch
 
 
touch
i feel like wispiness and soft
 
 
i feel like wispiness and soft
 
 
i feel like wispiness and soft
flutteriness is
 
 
flutteriness is
 
 
flutteriness is
everything you want to go for what i
 
 
everything you want to go for what i
 
 
everything you want to go for what i
also really think flatters the eyes and
 
 
also really think flatters the eyes and
 
 
also really think flatters the eyes and
always makes me feel my oats honey
 
 
always makes me feel my oats honey
 
 
always makes me feel my oats honey
is a couple of lower lashes like
 
 
is a couple of lower lashes like
 
 
is a couple of lower lashes like
individual lower lashes to
 
 
individual lower lashes to
 
 
individual lower lashes to
get that extra bit of drama but still
 
 
get that extra bit of drama but still
 
 
get that extra bit of drama but still
have that fluffy fantasy so i'm gonna
 
 
have that fluffy fantasy so i'm gonna
 
 
have that fluffy fantasy so i'm gonna
pop my lashes on and pop
 
 
pop my lashes on and pop
 
 
pop my lashes on and pop
three individuals on the bottom to get
 
 
three individuals on the bottom to get
 
 
three individuals on the bottom to get
that flirty touch
 
 
that flirty touch
 
 
that flirty touch
and then let's move on to contouring
 
 
and then let's move on to contouring
 
 
and then let's move on to contouring
okay now it is time to
 
 
okay now it is time to
 
 
okay now it is time to
contour and really start sculpting the
 
 
contour and really start sculpting the
 
 
contour and really start sculpting the
face in the way you like it let me
 
 
face in the way you like it let me
 
 
face in the way you like it let me
introduce you to your new best friend
 
 
introduce you to your new best friend
 
 
introduce you to your new best friend
bronzer and contour powder now most of
 
 
bronzer and contour powder now most of
 
 
bronzer and contour powder now most of
the time
 
 
the time
 
 
the time
foreheads for us tend to be a bit bigger
 
 
foreheads for us tend to be a bit bigger
 
 
foreheads for us tend to be a bit bigger
that's why a lot of us tend to choose
 
 
that's why a lot of us tend to choose
 
 
that's why a lot of us tend to choose
for a hairline surgery where we lower
 
 
for a hairline surgery where we lower
 
 
for a hairline surgery where we lower
everything but makeup
 
 
everything but makeup
 
 
everything but makeup
is really powerful too i'm to say a
 
 
is really powerful too i'm to say a
 
 
is really powerful too i'm to say a
couple of really controversial things
 
 
couple of really controversial things
 
 
couple of really controversial things
now
 
 
now
 
 
now
everyone is always so anti-shimmery
 
 
everyone is always so anti-shimmery
 
 
everyone is always so anti-shimmery
bronzer that for years
 
 
bronzer that for years
 
 
bronzer that for years
when i saw a shimmery bronzer i was like
 
 
when i saw a shimmery bronzer i was like
 
 
when i saw a shimmery bronzer i was like
oh no
 
 
oh no
 
 
oh no
oh no that is a no-no until i tried it
 
 
oh no that is a no-no until i tried it
 
 
oh no that is a no-no until i tried it
out on my forehead
 
 
out on my forehead
 
 
out on my forehead
and parts of my face because i have a
 
 
and parts of my face because i have a
 
 
and parts of my face because i have a
large and in charged forehead
 
 
large and in charged forehead
 
 
large and in charged forehead
that for me is really difficult to
 
 
that for me is really difficult to
 
 
that for me is really difficult to
contour because when i put too much
 
 
contour because when i put too much
 
 
contour because when i put too much
product on
 
 
product on
 
 
product on
it looks muddy until i found this
 
 
it looks muddy until i found this
 
 
it looks muddy until i found this
product right here
 
 
product right here
 
 
product right here
if you're around my skin color this is
 
 
if you're around my skin color this is
 
 
if you're around my skin color this is
by m cosmetics this is called heaven's
 
 
by m cosmetics this is called heaven's
 
 
by m cosmetics this is called heaven's
glow
 
 
glow
 
 
glow
faded clementine this i believe is meant
 
 
faded clementine this i believe is meant
 
 
faded clementine this i believe is meant
as a glowy blush or highlighter for most
 
 
as a glowy blush or highlighter for most
 
 
as a glowy blush or highlighter for most
on me it's a bronzer when i shape my
 
 
on me it's a bronzer when i shape my
 
 
on me it's a bronzer when i shape my
forehead with this
 
 
forehead with this
 
 
forehead with this
it has enough shine to sort of like
 
 
it has enough shine to sort of like
 
 
it has enough shine to sort of like
blend
 
 
blend
 
 
blend
the edges and not make it look muddy but
 
 
the edges and not make it look muddy but
 
 
the edges and not make it look muddy but
it has enough madness and strength to it
 
 
it has enough madness and strength to it
 
 
it has enough madness and strength to it
to actually lower down and shrink my
 
 
to actually lower down and shrink my
 
 
to actually lower down and shrink my
forehead a bit so i take a big
 
 
forehead a bit so i take a big
 
 
forehead a bit so i take a big
fluffy face brush and literally what i
 
 
fluffy face brush and literally what i
 
 
fluffy face brush and literally what i
do is i start
 
 
do is i start
 
 
do is i start
sort of dusting it around the hairline
 
 
sort of dusting it around the hairline
 
 
sort of dusting it around the hairline
so where my hairline is i just kind of
 
 
so where my hairline is i just kind of
 
 
so where my hairline is i just kind of
brush it around
 
 
brush it around
 
 
brush it around
and start fading it in and i'm not
 
 
and start fading it in and i'm not
 
 
and start fading it in and i'm not
touching my face
 
 
touching my face
 
 
touching my face
really harshly i'm kind of like fluffing
 
 
really harshly i'm kind of like fluffing
 
 
really harshly i'm kind of like fluffing
it over
 
 
it over
 
 
it over
to get that warmth and the definition
 
 
to get that warmth and the definition
 
 
to get that warmth and the definition
this makes me look a bit more tan like
 
 
this makes me look a bit more tan like
 
 
this makes me look a bit more tan like
i've actually seen the sun
 
 
i've actually seen the sun
 
 
i've actually seen the sun
but most of all it shrinks down that
 
 
but most of all it shrinks down that
 
 
but most of all it shrinks down that
forehead and makes
 
 
forehead and makes
 
 
forehead and makes
it look smaller in a natural way you
 
 
it look smaller in a natural way you
 
 
it look smaller in a natural way you
want to shape it almost like
 
 
want to shape it almost like
 
 
want to shape it almost like
drag queens call this the beige rainbow
 
 
drag queens call this the beige rainbow
 
 
drag queens call this the beige rainbow
so sort of think of
 
 
so sort of think of
 
 
so sort of think of
this portion right here being the
 
 
this portion right here being the
 
 
this portion right here being the
lightest smallest part of the rainbow
 
 
lightest smallest part of the rainbow
 
 
lightest smallest part of the rainbow
and then it just
 
 
and then it just
 
 
and then it just
like goes up and it fades out to color i
 
 
like goes up and it fades out to color i
 
 
like goes up and it fades out to color i
also pick up this product a little bit
 
 
also pick up this product a little bit
 
 
also pick up this product a little bit
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
contour high up on my cheekbones
 
 
contour high up on my cheekbones
 
 
contour high up on my cheekbones
usually people tell you to contour like
 
 
usually people tell you to contour like
 
 
usually people tell you to contour like
following your mouth
 
 
following your mouth
 
 
following your mouth
to your ear that is going to be too low
 
 
to your ear that is going to be too low
 
 
to your ear that is going to be too low
for us i feel like it flatters us more
 
 
for us i feel like it flatters us more
 
 
for us i feel like it flatters us more
if we go a bit higher up
 
 
if we go a bit higher up
 
 
if we go a bit higher up
so usually you would contour here we're
 
 
so usually you would contour here we're
 
 
so usually you would contour here we're
going to contour here i just
 
 
going to contour here i just
 
 
going to contour here i just
add in warmth i'm not necessarily
 
 
add in warmth i'm not necessarily
 
 
add in warmth i'm not necessarily
contouring yet
 
 
contouring yet
 
 
contouring yet
i'm just adding in warmth but that
 
 
i'm just adding in warmth but that
 
 
i'm just adding in warmth but that
already is giving me a bit of shape
 
 
already is giving me a bit of shape
 
 
already is giving me a bit of shape
if you think of it if you keep all the
 
 
if you think of it if you keep all the
 
 
if you think of it if you keep all the
lightness towards the center of the face
 
 
lightness towards the center of the face
 
 
lightness towards the center of the face
it gives it a softer appeal whereas
 
 
it gives it a softer appeal whereas
 
 
it gives it a softer appeal whereas
if you would leave this very like sharp
 
 
if you would leave this very like sharp
 
 
if you would leave this very like sharp
it would give you more like an intense
 
 
it would give you more like an intense
 
 
it would give you more like an intense
feel okay and i also pick up a little
 
 
feel okay and i also pick up a little
 
 
feel okay and i also pick up a little
bit
 
 
bit
 
 
bit
and just brush it onto the nose from tip
 
 
and just brush it onto the nose from tip
 
 
and just brush it onto the nose from tip
to the bridge just on it
 
 
to the bridge just on it
 
 
to the bridge just on it
as you go okay now it is time for that
 
 
as you go okay now it is time for that
 
 
as you go okay now it is time for that
extra definition so now you want to pick
 
 
extra definition so now you want to pick
 
 
extra definition so now you want to pick
up a contour shade or a matte bronzer
 
 
up a contour shade or a matte bronzer
 
 
up a contour shade or a matte bronzer
that leans
 
 
that leans
 
 
that leans
towards the cooler side a bit more and
 
 
towards the cooler side a bit more and
 
 
towards the cooler side a bit more and
this is where i really go high up on
 
 
this is where i really go high up on
 
 
this is where i really go high up on
that cheekbone
 
 
that cheekbone
 
 
that cheekbone
and give myself that warmth and a bit
 
 
and give myself that warmth and a bit
 
 
and give myself that warmth and a bit
more of that depth and the number one
 
 
more of that depth and the number one
 
 
more of that depth and the number one
trick
 
 
trick
 
 
trick
to finding the places where contour
 
 
to finding the places where contour
 
 
to finding the places where contour
suits your face
 
 
suits your face
 
 
suits your face
is if you talk you naturally have
 
 
is if you talk you naturally have
 
 
is if you talk you naturally have
shadows coming
 
 
shadows coming
 
 
shadows coming
for me when i talk my shadows happen
 
 
for me when i talk my shadows happen
 
 
for me when i talk my shadows happen
here so this would be
 
 
here so this would be
 
 
here so this would be
a great part of your face to naturally
 
 
a great part of your face to naturally
 
 
a great part of your face to naturally
give a bit more depth
 
 
give a bit more depth
 
 
give a bit more depth
because it just flows with the face
 
 
because it just flows with the face
 
 
because it just flows with the face
beautifully i talk i keep talking
 
 
beautifully i talk i keep talking
 
 
beautifully i talk i keep talking
where i see the shadow i just kind of
 
 
where i see the shadow i just kind of
 
 
where i see the shadow i just kind of
brush in some of that bronzer
 
 
brush in some of that bronzer
 
 
brush in some of that bronzer
contour powder and it just kind of flows
 
 
contour powder and it just kind of flows
 
 
contour powder and it just kind of flows
with the face and gives you that extra
 
 
with the face and gives you that extra
 
 
with the face and gives you that extra
like oh
 
 
like oh
 
 
like oh
skinny queen the jawline is really
 
 
skinny queen the jawline is really
 
 
skinny queen the jawline is really
important because
 
 
important because
 
 
important because
if you have a stronger jawline you want
 
 
if you have a stronger jawline you want
 
 
if you have a stronger jawline you want
to bring it in
 
 
to bring it in
 
 
to bring it in
and you know make it softer if you're
 
 
and you know make it softer if you're
 
 
and you know make it softer if you're
open to it
 
 
open to it
 
 
open to it
getting botox done in your jawline will
 
 
getting botox done in your jawline will
 
 
getting botox done in your jawline will
soften the jaw if you have a very strong
 
 
soften the jaw if you have a very strong
 
 
soften the jaw if you have a very strong
jaw
 
 
jaw
 
 
jaw
muscle putting botox in that will slim
 
 
muscle putting botox in that will slim
 
 
muscle putting botox in that will slim
it down and cool it down a bit and make
 
 
it down and cool it down a bit and make
 
 
it down and cool it down a bit and make
it less broad
 
 
it less broad
 
 
it less broad
plus if you grind your teeth at night
 
 
plus if you grind your teeth at night
 
 
plus if you grind your teeth at night
that will rest that puppy down
 
 
that will rest that puppy down
 
 
that will rest that puppy down
if you're open to it i'm not saying you
 
 
if you're open to it i'm not saying you
 
 
if you're open to it i'm not saying you
should get this but if you're open to it
 
 
should get this but if you're open to it
 
 
should get this but if you're open to it
know that that is an option now if your
 
 
know that that is an option now if your
 
 
know that that is an option now if your
jaw is stronger which
 
 
jaw is stronger which
 
 
jaw is stronger which
mine clearly is not i suggest putting
 
 
mine clearly is not i suggest putting
 
 
mine clearly is not i suggest putting
your contour right
 
 
your contour right
 
 
your contour right
on that sort of sharp edge here put your
 
 
on that sort of sharp edge here put your
 
 
on that sort of sharp edge here put your
contour right above it in a rounded
 
 
contour right above it in a rounded
 
 
contour right above it in a rounded
manner to
 
 
manner to
 
 
manner to
keep things very soft now for me because
 
 
keep things very soft now for me because
 
 
keep things very soft now for me because
i
 
 
i
 
 
i
pretty much don't have a jaw i create
 
 
pretty much don't have a jaw i create
 
 
pretty much don't have a jaw i create
one by going
 
 
one by going
 
 
one by going
underneath my actual jaw with that
 
 
underneath my actual jaw with that
 
 
underneath my actual jaw with that
powder
 
 
powder
 
 
powder
underneath it all the way towards
 
 
underneath it all the way towards
 
 
underneath it all the way towards
the ear see or just go
 
 
the ear see or just go
 
 
the ear see or just go
underneath the bone and blend it out
 
 
underneath the bone and blend it out
 
 
underneath the bone and blend it out
downwards
 
 
downwards
 
 
downwards
and it creates that shape for me oh mama
 
 
and it creates that shape for me oh mama
 
 
and it creates that shape for me oh mama
yes we're contoured
 
 
yes we're contoured
 
 
yes we're contoured
and nose contouring i used to struggle
 
 
and nose contouring i used to struggle
 
 
and nose contouring i used to struggle
with it for years but trust me this is
 
 
with it for years but trust me this is
 
 
with it for years but trust me this is
the easiest
 
 
the easiest
 
 
the easiest
feel proof technique there is you want
 
 
feel proof technique there is you want
 
 
feel proof technique there is you want
to take that powder again and just
 
 
to take that powder again and just
 
 
to take that powder again and just
bronze your nose like completely but
 
 
bronze your nose like completely but
 
 
bronze your nose like completely but
then you want to take your face powder
 
 
then you want to take your face powder
 
 
then you want to take your face powder
and a dry
 
 
and a dry
 
 
and a dry
beauty sponge pick up that face powder
 
 
beauty sponge pick up that face powder
 
 
beauty sponge pick up that face powder
that should have
 
 
that should have
 
 
that should have
quite a bit of coverage to it and carve
 
 
quite a bit of coverage to it and carve
 
 
quite a bit of coverage to it and carve
out the sides
 
 
out the sides
 
 
out the sides
and in this step you can really make
 
 
and in this step you can really make
 
 
and in this step you can really make
your nose as
 
 
your nose as
 
 
your nose as
pinched or as wide as you like it
 
 
pinched or as wide as you like it
 
 
pinched or as wide as you like it
and then also do the bridge of the nose
 
 
and then also do the bridge of the nose
 
 
and then also do the bridge of the nose
with that powder and now with a big
 
 
with that powder and now with a big
 
 
with that powder and now with a big
fluffy face brush you're just gonna sort
 
 
fluffy face brush you're just gonna sort
 
 
fluffy face brush you're just gonna sort
of tickle
 
 
of tickle
 
 
of tickle
the edges of where the colors meet to
 
 
the edges of where the colors meet to
 
 
the edges of where the colors meet to
soften the harshness
 
 
soften the harshness
 
 
soften the harshness
and that will leave you with the
 
 
and that will leave you with the
 
 
and that will leave you with the
perfectly contoured nose that totally
 
 
perfectly contoured nose that totally
 
 
perfectly contoured nose that totally
suits your face
 
 
suits your face
 
 
suits your face
and you're totally in control for blush
 
 
and you're totally in control for blush
 
 
and you're totally in control for blush
i'm dipping into my palette and picking
 
 
i'm dipping into my palette and picking
 
 
i'm dipping into my palette and picking
up
 
 
up
 
 
up
zomer and for bush it's really the same
 
 
zomer and for bush it's really the same
 
 
zomer and for bush it's really the same
story
 
 
story
 
 
story
look at your face look at what you like
 
 
look at your face look at what you like
 
 
look at your face look at what you like
i just always kind of
 
 
i just always kind of
 
 
i just always kind of
marry my blush into the bronzer back
 
 
marry my blush into the bronzer back
 
 
marry my blush into the bronzer back
there
 
 
there
 
 
there
because again i feel like if i put it
 
 
because again i feel like if i put it
 
 
because again i feel like if i put it
more towards the side optically it's
 
 
more towards the side optically it's
 
 
more towards the side optically it's
going to pull my face inwards a bit more
 
 
going to pull my face inwards a bit more
 
 
going to pull my face inwards a bit more
and blush on the tip of the nose always
 
 
and blush on the tip of the nose always
 
 
and blush on the tip of the nose always
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
a good option it ties everything
 
 
a good option it ties everything
 
 
a good option it ties everything
together plus
 
 
together plus
 
 
together plus
it makes the nose look a little bit
 
 
it makes the nose look a little bit
 
 
it makes the nose look a little bit
shorter and buttony then for highlighter
 
 
shorter and buttony then for highlighter
 
 
shorter and buttony then for highlighter
oh my god this is always my favorite
 
 
oh my god this is always my favorite
 
 
oh my god this is always my favorite
moment i pick up a little bit of
 
 
moment i pick up a little bit of
 
 
moment i pick up a little bit of
my favorite highlighter at the moment
 
 
my favorite highlighter at the moment
 
 
my favorite highlighter at the moment
you just want to intensify the highlight
 
 
you just want to intensify the highlight
 
 
you just want to intensify the highlight
you already see going on
 
 
you already see going on
 
 
you already see going on
so it would be weird to like put all the
 
 
so it would be weird to like put all the
 
 
so it would be weird to like put all the
highlighter here because you're
 
 
highlighter here because you're
 
 
highlighter here because you're
desperately trying to
 
 
desperately trying to
 
 
desperately trying to
create that illusion i go on that area
 
 
create that illusion i go on that area
 
 
create that illusion i go on that area
and give it some shine and i always like
 
 
and give it some shine and i always like
 
 
and give it some shine and i always like
smiling really big
 
 
smiling really big
 
 
smiling really big
and giving the apples of my cheeks a
 
 
and giving the apples of my cheeks a
 
 
and giving the apples of my cheeks a
nice glisten
 
 
nice glisten
 
 
nice glisten
because it just makes you look very
 
 
because it just makes you look very
 
 
because it just makes you look very
healthy and awake and to really
 
 
healthy and awake and to really
 
 
healthy and awake and to really
convince people of the fantasy of your
 
 
convince people of the fantasy of your
 
 
convince people of the fantasy of your
now pinched nose
 
 
now pinched nose
 
 
now pinched nose
you want to highlight the very tip of
 
 
you want to highlight the very tip of
 
 
you want to highlight the very tip of
your nose right here
 
 
your nose right here
 
 
your nose right here
create a little ball of light and my
 
 
create a little ball of light and my
 
 
create a little ball of light and my
favorite all-time favorite place to
 
 
favorite all-time favorite place to
 
 
favorite all-time favorite place to
highlight
 
 
highlight
 
 
highlight
is the bridge of the nose right here
 
 
is the bridge of the nose right here
 
 
is the bridge of the nose right here
this just completes
 
 
this just completes
 
 
this just completes
the look and ties it together with the
 
 
the look and ties it together with the
 
 
the look and ties it together with the
entire face
 
 
entire face
 
 
entire face
it's my favorite thing to do as for lips
 
 
it's my favorite thing to do as for lips
 
 
it's my favorite thing to do as for lips
it is totally up to you what you prefer
 
 
it is totally up to you what you prefer
 
 
it is totally up to you what you prefer
i am a sucker for a lined glossy
 
 
i am a sucker for a lined glossy
 
 
i am a sucker for a lined glossy
nude lip so when i look at myself and i
 
 
nude lip so when i look at myself and i
 
 
nude lip so when i look at myself and i
look at my lips there's a natural sort
 
 
look at my lips there's a natural sort
 
 
look at my lips there's a natural sort
of
 
 
of
 
 
of
lightness surrounding the lip that is a
 
 
lightness surrounding the lip that is a
 
 
lightness surrounding the lip that is a
portion you can always line to make the
 
 
portion you can always line to make the
 
 
portion you can always line to make the
lips look fuller
 
 
lips look fuller
 
 
lips look fuller
and staying within like the same
 
 
and staying within like the same
 
 
and staying within like the same
boundaries before like going too far
 
 
boundaries before like going too far
 
 
boundaries before like going too far
so see how i have that white line and i
 
 
so see how i have that white line and i
 
 
so see how i have that white line and i
put my liner like
 
 
put my liner like
 
 
put my liner like
right above it this is about as far as
 
 
right above it this is about as far as
 
 
right above it this is about as far as
you can go
 
 
you can go
 
 
you can go
naturally plumping up those lips and it
 
 
naturally plumping up those lips and it
 
 
naturally plumping up those lips and it
always helps to like fade in the edges
 
 
always helps to like fade in the edges
 
 
always helps to like fade in the edges
towards the side of the mouth like right
 
 
towards the side of the mouth like right
 
 
towards the side of the mouth like right
here
 
 
here
 
 
here
to create more optical illusion of plump
 
 
to create more optical illusion of plump
 
 
to create more optical illusion of plump
so you have this like fades in more
 
 
so you have this like fades in more
 
 
so you have this like fades in more
gives more like a pout then i'm gonna
 
 
gives more like a pout then i'm gonna
 
 
gives more like a pout then i'm gonna
take a nice nude
 
 
take a nice nude
 
 
take a nice nude
liquid lipstick for that long wear
 
 
liquid lipstick for that long wear
 
 
liquid lipstick for that long wear
beautiful nudeness
 
 
beautiful nudeness
 
 
beautiful nudeness
okay and then a nice nude peachy gloss
 
 
okay and then a nice nude peachy gloss
 
 
okay and then a nice nude peachy gloss
on top this one is by artist couture in
 
 
on top this one is by artist couture in
 
 
on top this one is by artist couture in
the color
 
 
the color
 
 
the color
thirst trap oh i love
 
 
thirst trap oh i love
 
 
thirst trap oh i love
their glosses and i love this new color
 
 
their glosses and i love this new color
 
 
their glosses and i love this new color
i actually do have a discount code
 
 
i actually do have a discount code
 
 
i actually do have a discount code
with artist couture so if you want to
 
 
with artist couture so if you want to
 
 
with artist couture so if you want to
save some money honey
 
 
save some money honey
 
 
save some money honey
he's just gonna call nikki and check out
 
 
he's just gonna call nikki and check out
 
 
he's just gonna call nikki and check out
that closes everything and last but
 
 
that closes everything and last but
 
 
that closes everything and last but
certainly not least it is now time for
 
 
certainly not least it is now time for
 
 
certainly not least it is now time for
setting spray to transform that matte
 
 
setting spray to transform that matte
 
 
setting spray to transform that matte
skin back into gorgeous radiant looking
 
 
skin back into gorgeous radiant looking
 
 
skin back into gorgeous radiant looking
skin
 
 
skin
 
 
skin
and today i'm using the morphe one
 
 
and today i'm using the morphe one
 
 
and today i'm using the morphe one
and that my glow babies is one of the
 
 
and that my glow babies is one of the
 
 
and that my glow babies is one of the
many ways to
 
 
many ways to
 
 
many ways to
feminizing the face or just simply
 
 
feminizing the face or just simply
 
 
feminizing the face or just simply
feeling more confident with a layer of
 
 
feeling more confident with a layer of
 
 
feeling more confident with a layer of
makeup
 
 
makeup
 
 
makeup
on there are tons of other rainbow
 
 
on there are tons of other rainbow
 
 
on there are tons of other rainbow
family members here on youtube who have
 
 
family members here on youtube who have
 
 
family members here on youtube who have
done videos like this
 
 
done videos like this
 
 
done videos like this
and i highly suggest you checking them
 
 
and i highly suggest you checking them
 
 
and i highly suggest you checking them
out so you can garner
 
 
out so you can garner
 
 
out so you can garner
all the info all the tips and tricks and
 
 
all the info all the tips and tricks and
 
 
all the info all the tips and tricks and
then come up with the perfect routine
 
 
then come up with the perfect routine
 
 
then come up with the perfect routine
for you
 
 
for you
 
 
for you
but at the end of the day please don't
 
 
but at the end of the day please don't
 
 
but at the end of the day please don't
forget that you are beautiful
 
 
forget that you are beautiful
 
 
forget that you are beautiful
just the way you are i hope some of
 
 
just the way you are i hope some of
 
 
just the way you are i hope some of
these tricks have been helpful to you
 
 
these tricks have been helpful to you
 
 
these tricks have been helpful to you
and now without any further ado let's go
 
 
and now without any further ado let's go
 
 
and now without any further ado let's go
on to the dutch word
 
 
on to the dutch word
 
 
on to the dutch word
of the day
 
 
 
 
as always i want to thank you so much
 
 
as always i want to thank you so much
 
 
as always i want to thank you so much
for commenting the dutch word of the day
 
 
for commenting the dutch word of the day
 
 
for commenting the dutch word of the day
in my previous video
 
 
in my previous video
 
 
in my previous video
as for today's note word of the day with
 
 
as for today's note word of the day with
 
 
as for today's note word of the day with
my coming out earlier this year and with
 
 
my coming out earlier this year and with
 
 
my coming out earlier this year and with
videos like this today and
 
 
videos like this today and
 
 
videos like this today and
videos like these that other creators
 
 
videos like these that other creators
 
 
videos like these that other creators
are doing we're really fighting for more
 
 
are doing we're really fighting for more
 
 
are doing we're really fighting for more
acceptance so today's dutch word of the
 
 
acceptance so today's dutch word of the
 
 
acceptance so today's dutch word of the
day is for
 
 
day is for
 
 
day is for
acceptance acceptance
 
 
 
 
together we will fight for more
 
 
together we will fight for more
 
 
together we will fight for more
acceptance
 
 
acceptance
 
 
acceptance
as always if you want to get featured in
 
 
as always if you want to get featured in
 
 
as always if you want to get featured in
my next video all you have to do is
 
 
my next video all you have to do is
 
 
my next video all you have to do is
leave the dutch word of the day
 
 
leave the dutch word of the day
 
 
leave the dutch word of the day
down below in the comments don't forget
 
 
down below in the comments don't forget
 
 
down below in the comments don't forget
to give this video a big thumbs up if
 
 
to give this video a big thumbs up if
 
 
to give this video a big thumbs up if
you enjoyed it
 
 
you enjoyed it
 
 
you enjoyed it
subscribe to my channel and don't forget
 
 
subscribe to my channel and don't forget
 
 
subscribe to my channel and don't forget
to ring the bell icon so you get
 
 
to ring the bell icon so you get
 
 
to ring the bell icon so you get
notified every time
 
 
notified every time
 
 
notified every time
i upload a brand new video i want to
 
 
i upload a brand new video i want to
 
 
i upload a brand new video i want to
thank you so much for watching this was
 
 
thank you so much for watching this was
 
 
thank you so much for watching this was
very very special to me thank you for
 
 
very very special to me thank you for
 
 
very very special to me thank you for
tuning in and sticking all the way
 
 
tuning in and sticking all the way
 
 
tuning in and sticking all the way
through
 
 
through
 
 
through
i love you and hopefully i will see you
 
 
i love you and hopefully i will see you
 
 
i love you and hopefully i will see you
guys on the next one

 
but the big store on abc action news

 
but the big store on abc action news

 
but the big store on abc action news
tonight the governor denouncing a

 
tonight the governor denouncing a

 
tonight the governor denouncing a
transgender college athlete's national

 
transgender college athlete's national

 
transgender college athlete's national
swimming title good evening i'm jameis

 
swimming title good evening i'm jameis

 
swimming title good evening i'm jameis
mueller and i'm wendy ryan thank you for
 
 
mueller and i'm wendy ryan thank you for
 
 
mueller and i'm wendy ryan thank you for
joining us everyone abc action news
 
 
joining us everyone abc action news
 
 
joining us everyone abc action news
reporter julie salomon has the very
 
 
reporter julie salomon has the very
 
 
reporter julie salomon has the very
latest on this controversy tonight
 
 
latest on this controversy tonight
 
 
latest on this controversy tonight
governor ron desantis signed a
 
 
governor ron desantis signed a
 
 
governor ron desantis signed a
proclamation tuesday declaring sarasota
 
 
proclamation tuesday declaring sarasota
 
 
proclamation tuesday declaring sarasota
native emma wyant quote the rightful
 
 
native emma wyant quote the rightful
 
 
native emma wyant quote the rightful
winner of the ncaa women's 500 yard
 
 
winner of the ncaa women's 500 yard
 
 
winner of the ncaa women's 500 yard
freestyle swimming event wyant finished
 
 
freestyle swimming event wyant finished
 
 
freestyle swimming event wyant finished
second to leah thomas a transgender
 
 
second to leah thomas a transgender
 
 
second to leah thomas a transgender
woman they're trying to undermine the
 
 
woman they're trying to undermine the
 
 
woman they're trying to undermine the
integrity of the competition and they're
 
 
integrity of the competition and they're
 
 
integrity of the competition and they're
crowning somebody else
 
 
crowning somebody else
 
 
crowning somebody else
the woman's champion and we think that's
 
 
the woman's champion and we think that's
 
 
the woman's champion and we think that's
wrong the governor posting on twitter
 
 
wrong the governor posting on twitter
 
 
wrong the governor posting on twitter
the ncaa is destroying opportunities for
 
 
the ncaa is destroying opportunities for
 
 
the ncaa is destroying opportunities for
women making a mockery of its
 
 
women making a mockery of its
 
 
women making a mockery of its
championships and perpetuating a fraud
 
 
championships and perpetuating a fraud
 
 
championships and perpetuating a fraud
the ncaa board of governors voted in
 
 
the ncaa board of governors voted in
 
 
the ncaa board of governors voted in
january to support a sport by sport
 
 
january to support a sport by sport
 
 
january to support a sport by sport
approach to transgender participation in
 
 
approach to transgender participation in
 
 
approach to transgender participation in
february usa swimming unveiled a new
 
 
february usa swimming unveiled a new
 
 
february usa swimming unveiled a new
policy that would allow transgender
 
 
policy that would allow transgender
 
 
policy that would allow transgender
athletes to swim in elite events by
 
 
athletes to swim in elite events by
 
 
athletes to swim in elite events by
setting criteria to mitigate any unfair
 
 
setting criteria to mitigate any unfair
 
 
setting criteria to mitigate any unfair
advantages they are putting ideology
 
 
advantages they are putting ideology
 
 
advantages they are putting ideology
ahead of opportunity for women athletes
 
 
ahead of opportunity for women athletes
 
 
ahead of opportunity for women athletes
and i think that there's just some
 
 
and i think that there's just some
 
 
and i think that there's just some
people that are afraid to speak out
 
 
people that are afraid to speak out
 
 
people that are afraid to speak out
brandon wolf press secretary at equality
 
 
brandon wolf press secretary at equality
 
 
brandon wolf press secretary at equality
florida says the governor needs to focus
 
 
florida says the governor needs to focus
 
 
florida says the governor needs to focus
on real issues like skyrocketing rent
 
 
on real issues like skyrocketing rent
 
 
on real issues like skyrocketing rent
and affordable housing in florida the
 
 
and affordable housing in florida the
 
 
and affordable housing in florida the
truth is that words matter and when you
 
 
truth is that words matter and when you
 
 
truth is that words matter and when you
have people at the highest levels of
 
 
have people at the highest levels of
 
 
have people at the highest levels of
leadership in the state of florida
 
 
leadership in the state of florida
 
 
leadership in the state of florida
debating the very dignity and humanity
 
 
debating the very dignity and humanity
 
 
debating the very dignity and humanity
of transgender and non-binary young
 
 
of transgender and non-binary young
 
 
of transgender and non-binary young
people
 
 
people
 
 
people
that has an impact it has a disparate
 
 
that has an impact it has a disparate
 
 
that has an impact it has a disparate
impact on those who need us the most
 
 
impact on those who need us the most
 
 
impact on those who need us the most
right now those who are most likely to
 
 
right now those who are most likely to
 
 
right now those who are most likely to
face depression and bullying and anxiety
 
 
face depression and bullying and anxiety
 
 
face depression and bullying and anxiety
the governor signed legislation last
 
 
the governor signed legislation last
 
 
the governor signed legislation last
year banning transgender females from
 
 
year banning transgender females from
 
 
year banning transgender females from
participating in women's sports at
 
 
participating in women's sports at
 
 
participating in women's sports at
public high schools and colleges in
 
 
public high schools and colleges in
 
 
public high schools and colleges in
florida numerous other states have
 
 
florida numerous other states have
 
 
florida numerous other states have
similar laws some of which are caught up
 
 
similar laws some of which are caught up
 
 
similar laws some of which are caught up
in lawsuits julie salmon abc action news

 
tonight governor newsom announcing the

 
tonight governor newsom announcing the

 
tonight governor newsom announcing the
appointment of california's first openly

 
appointment of california's first openly

 
appointment of california's first openly
transgender judge andy mudrick will

 
transgender judge andy mudrick will

 
transgender judge andy mudrick will
serve as a judge on the sacramento

 
serve as a judge on the sacramento

 
serve as a judge on the sacramento
county superior court she's served as
 
 
county superior court she's served as
 
 
county superior court she's served as
chief deputy director at the california
 
 
chief deputy director at the california
 
 
chief deputy director at the california
department of rehabilitation since 2020
 
 
department of rehabilitation since 2020
 
 
department of rehabilitation since 2020
she earned her law degree from george
 
 
she earned her law degree from george
 
 
she earned her law degree from george
washington university

 
we do have the vote

 
we do have the vote

 
we do have the vote
in less than 24 hours the utah

 
in less than 24 hours the utah

 
in less than 24 hours the utah
legislature is expected to override

 
legislature is expected to override

 
legislature is expected to override
governor spencer cox's veto of the bill

 
governor spencer cox's veto of the bill

 
governor spencer cox's veto of the bill
banning transgender children from
 
 
banning transgender children from
 
 
banning transgender children from
playing school sports while politicians
 
 
playing school sports while politicians
 
 
playing school sports while politicians
debate the future of house bill 11
 
 
debate the future of house bill 11
 
 
debate the future of house bill 11
advocates and allies are trying to make
 
 
advocates and allies are trying to make
 
 
advocates and allies are trying to make
their voices heard fox 13 news reporter
 
 
their voices heard fox 13 news reporter
 
 
their voices heard fox 13 news reporter
emily tenser is live tonight on utah's
 
 
emily tenser is live tonight on utah's
 
 
emily tenser is live tonight on utah's
capitol hill after a rally in support of
 
 
capitol hill after a rally in support of
 
 
capitol hill after a rally in support of
utah's transgender youth emily
 
 
utah's transgender youth emily
 
 
utah's transgender youth emily
utah's lgbtq plus community tells me
 
 
utah's lgbtq plus community tells me
 
 
utah's lgbtq plus community tells me
it's been an emotional exhausting week
 
 
it's been an emotional exhausting week
 
 
it's been an emotional exhausting week
and they think those feelings will only
 
 
and they think those feelings will only
 
 
and they think those feelings will only
intensify when the special legislative
 
 
intensify when the special legislative
 
 
intensify when the special legislative
session begins tomorrow now a crowd
 
 
session begins tomorrow now a crowd
 
 
session begins tomorrow now a crowd
gathered here at the capitol wanting to
 
 
gathered here at the capitol wanting to
 
 
gathered here at the capitol wanting to
send a message to state lawmakers but
 
 
send a message to state lawmakers but
 
 
send a message to state lawmakers but
also to send a message to the community
 
 
also to send a message to the community
 
 
also to send a message to the community
that they have their back regardless of
 
 
that they have their back regardless of
 
 
that they have their back regardless of
what happens
 
 
what happens
 
 
what happens
this is why we're here
 
 
this is why we're here
 
 
this is why we're here
they are why we are here
 
 
they are why we are here
 
 
they are why we are here
utah's youth transgender community races
 
 
utah's youth transgender community races
 
 
utah's youth transgender community races
to the steps of the capitol to sit side
 
 
to the steps of the capitol to sit side
 
 
to the steps of the capitol to sit side
by side the crowd sends hearts their way
 
 
by side the crowd sends hearts their way
 
 
by side the crowd sends hearts their way
showing them that they have their
 
 
showing them that they have their
 
 
showing them that they have their
support this isn't about points on a
 
 
support this isn't about points on a
 
 
support this isn't about points on a
scoreboard or college sports
 
 
scoreboard or college sports
 
 
scoreboard or college sports
scholarships this is fundamentally about
 
 
scholarships this is fundamentally about
 
 
scholarships this is fundamentally about
survival safety and community hundreds
 
 
survival safety and community hundreds
 
 
survival safety and community hundreds
of allies and members of utah's lgbtq
 
 
of allies and members of utah's lgbtq
 
 
of allies and members of utah's lgbtq
plus community wave their flags and
 
 
plus community wave their flags and
 
 
plus community wave their flags and
comfort one another uncertain of what
 
 
comfort one another uncertain of what
 
 
comfort one another uncertain of what
friday's legislative session will bring
 
 
friday's legislative session will bring
 
 
friday's legislative session will bring
there is even one person in utah or four
 
 
there is even one person in utah or four
 
 
there is even one person in utah or four
people in the whole u.s that's too many
 
 
people in the whole u.s that's too many
 
 
people in the whole u.s that's too many
people who are being excluded according
 
 
people who are being excluded according
 
 
people who are being excluded according
to governor spencer cox out of 75
 
 
to governor spencer cox out of 75
 
 
to governor spencer cox out of 75
thousand students in school sports four
 
 
thousand students in school sports four
 
 
thousand students in school sports four
are transgender one a young trans woman
 
 
are transgender one a young trans woman
 
 
are transgender one a young trans woman
we just want to play we just wanted
 
 
we just want to play we just wanted
 
 
we just want to play we just wanted
equal opportunity to be able to play and
 
 
equal opportunity to be able to play and
 
 
equal opportunity to be able to play and
have fun with the rest of the kids
 
 
have fun with the rest of the kids
 
 
have fun with the rest of the kids
there's talk that major events like the
 
 
there's talk that major events like the
 
 
there's talk that major events like the
nba all-star game could move if state
 
 
nba all-star game could move if state
 
 
nba all-star game could move if state
lawmakers take the stance to stop female
 
 
lawmakers take the stance to stop female
 
 
lawmakers take the stance to stop female
trans students from sports
 
 
trans students from sports
 
 
trans students from sports
hear an attack
 
 
hear an attack
 
 
hear an attack
our marginalized community
 
 
our marginalized community
 
 
our marginalized community
let's know that there's pain that goes
 
 
let's know that there's pain that goes
 
 
let's know that there's pain that goes
with it because we love our kids and we
 
 
with it because we love our kids and we
 
 
with it because we love our kids and we
won't stand for that speakers at
 
 
won't stand for that speakers at
 
 
won't stand for that speakers at
thursday's rally ranged from community
 
 
thursday's rally ranged from community
 
 
thursday's rally ranged from community
leaders to educators to mental health
 
 
leaders to educators to mental health
 
 
leaders to educators to mental health
experts and trans high school students
 
 
experts and trans high school students
 
 
experts and trans high school students
all with the same message fighting for
 
 
all with the same message fighting for
 
 
all with the same message fighting for
love and inclusivity this is wrong it is
 
 
love and inclusivity this is wrong it is
 
 
love and inclusivity this is wrong it is
political
 
 
political
 
 
political
it is
 
 
it is
 
 
it is
not knowing our community and not trying
 
 
not knowing our community and not trying
 
 
not knowing our community and not trying
to know our community
 
 
 
 
people i've spoken to at the rally
 
 
people i've spoken to at the rally
 
 
people i've spoken to at the rally
tonight say they are not very hopeful
 
 
tonight say they are not very hopeful
 
 
tonight say they are not very hopeful
about tomorrow's session but say they
 
 
about tomorrow's session but say they
 
 
about tomorrow's session but say they
are encouraged to see the state making
 
 
are encouraged to see the state making
 
 
are encouraged to see the state making
national coverage when it comes to this
 
 
national coverage when it comes to this
 
 
national coverage when it comes to this
conversation reporting live outside the
 
 
conversation reporting live outside the
 
 
conversation reporting live outside the
capitol emily tenser fox 13 news utah

 
identify myself as a trans woman of

 
identify myself as a trans woman of

 
identify myself as a trans woman of
color I'm on this journey to reposition

 
color I'm on this journey to reposition

 
color I'm on this journey to reposition
everything externally to match

 
everything externally to match

 
everything externally to match
everything that's internally I have to

 
everything that's internally I have to

 
everything that's internally I have to
be myself or die trying
 
 
be myself or die trying
 
 
be myself or die trying
I say that I have trainer Exia
 
 
I say that I have trainer Exia
 
 
I say that I have trainer Exia
that every time I look in the mirror for
 
 
that every time I look in the mirror for
 
 
that every time I look in the mirror for
some reason I see my previous self even
 
 
some reason I see my previous self even
 
 
some reason I see my previous self even
though people from my past say it's so
 
 
though people from my past say it's so
 
 
though people from my past say it's so
hard to remember who he was and we don't
 
 
hard to remember who he was and we don't
 
 
hard to remember who he was and we don't
see him imagine waking up every day
 
 
see him imagine waking up every day
 
 
see him imagine waking up every day
uncomfortable in your own skin looking
 
 
uncomfortable in your own skin looking
 
 
uncomfortable in your own skin looking
in the mirror and not quite recognizing
 
 
in the mirror and not quite recognizing
 
 
in the mirror and not quite recognizing
the person that you feel internally it
 
 
the person that you feel internally it
 
 
the person that you feel internally it
is important for me to get facial
 
 
is important for me to get facial
 
 
is important for me to get facial
feminization surgery because now my
 
 
feminization surgery because now my
 
 
feminization surgery because now my
facial structure will match my internal
 
 
facial structure will match my internal
 
 
facial structure will match my internal
expression of Who I am the doctor that
 
 
expression of Who I am the doctor that
 
 
expression of Who I am the doctor that
I've chose dr. obeying is a corrective
 
 
I've chose dr. obeying is a corrective
 
 
I've chose dr. obeying is a corrective
surgery doctor the chin and then the
 
 
surgery doctor the chin and then the
 
 
surgery doctor the chin and then the
nose would get balanced to these two
 
 
nose would get balanced to these two
 
 
nose would get balanced to these two
because I really don't want to major
 
 
because I really don't want to major
 
 
because I really don't want to major
nose job what's beautiful right now is
 
 
nose job what's beautiful right now is
 
 
nose job what's beautiful right now is
that we're starting to get to a space
 
 
that we're starting to get to a space
 
 
that we're starting to get to a space
where everyone's being allowed to
 
 
where everyone's being allowed to
 
 
where everyone's being allowed to
operate on a spectrum one extreme being
 
 
operate on a spectrum one extreme being
 
 
operate on a spectrum one extreme being
completely female the other extreme
 
 
completely female the other extreme
 
 
completely female the other extreme
being completely male now what's in
 
 
being completely male now what's in
 
 
being completely male now what's in
between is what you choose my definition
 
 
between is what you choose my definition
 
 
between is what you choose my definition
of what being a woman of trans
 
 
of what being a woman of trans
 
 
of what being a woman of trans
experiences is living a reality that is
 
 
experiences is living a reality that is
 
 
experiences is living a reality that is
mirroring a cisgendered woman's
 
 
mirroring a cisgendered woman's
 
 
mirroring a cisgendered woman's
expression I want my body to look
 
 
expression I want my body to look
 
 
expression I want my body to look
completely female because that's how I
 
 
completely female because that's how I
 
 
completely female because that's how I
see enough how I feel but that's just me
 
 
see enough how I feel but that's just me
 
 
see enough how I feel but that's just me
so you very truly you like to have a
 
 
so you very truly you like to have a
 
 
so you very truly you like to have a
vagina yes this is
 
 
vagina yes this is
 
 
vagina yes this is
I was surgery I said about philosophy
 
 
I was surgery I said about philosophy
 
 
I was surgery I said about philosophy
let you do a safe
 
 
 
 
the same time it forgets what point was
 
 
the same time it forgets what point was
 
 
the same time it forgets what point was
for let me just over stuff go see you
 
 
for let me just over stuff go see you
 
 
for let me just over stuff go see you
know we met in a hurry let us start from
 
 
know we met in a hurry let us start from
 
 
know we met in a hurry let us start from
well we're going this way for me it's
 
 
well we're going this way for me it's
 
 
well we're going this way for me it's
scary what am I gonna see am I gonna
 
 
scary what am I gonna see am I gonna
 
 
scary what am I gonna see am I gonna
recognize myself am I gonna be happy
 
 
recognize myself am I gonna be happy
 
 
recognize myself am I gonna be happy
with these results were these the
 
 
with these results were these the
 
 
with these results were these the
results that I really wanted
 
 
results that I really wanted
 
 
results that I really wanted
 
 
 
 
[Applause]
 
 
 
 
Oh
 
 
 
 
I think it's gonna be more than just a
 
 
I think it's gonna be more than just a
 
 
I think it's gonna be more than just a
look but it will be a new confidence it
 
 
look but it will be a new confidence it
 
 
look but it will be a new confidence it
will be a new definition itself after
 
 
will be a new definition itself after
 
 
will be a new definition itself after
this surgery I'll be able to reintroduce
 
 
this surgery I'll be able to reintroduce
 
 
this surgery I'll be able to reintroduce
the real me so healing for me was
 
 
the real me so healing for me was
 
 
the real me so healing for me was
nothing at all
 
 
nothing at all
 
 
nothing at all
what I thought it was gonna be I thought
 
 
what I thought it was gonna be I thought
 
 
what I thought it was gonna be I thought
it was gonna be like you know day 7 I
 
 
it was gonna be like you know day 7 I
 
 
it was gonna be like you know day 7 I
see bruises but you know I'm trucking
 
 
see bruises but you know I'm trucking
 
 
see bruises but you know I'm trucking
along there was so many hiccups along
 
 
along there was so many hiccups along
 
 
along there was so many hiccups along
the way my body was just storing trauma
 
 
the way my body was just storing trauma
 
 
the way my body was just storing trauma
I think by day 7 I wanted you know I
 
 
I think by day 7 I wanted you know I
 
 
I think by day 7 I wanted you know I
wanted to reverse everything I wanted it
 
 
wanted to reverse everything I wanted it
 
 
wanted to reverse everything I wanted it
to stop and so much stuff was done to me
 
 
to stop and so much stuff was done to me
 
 
to stop and so much stuff was done to me
and while my body could take it mentally
 
 
and while my body could take it mentally
 
 
and while my body could take it mentally
dealing with it and physically dealing
 
 
dealing with it and physically dealing
 
 
dealing with it and physically dealing
with it was a lot but today looking back
 
 
with it was a lot but today looking back
 
 
with it was a lot but today looking back
at it all I would do it again in a
 
 
at it all I would do it again in a
 
 
at it all I would do it again in a
heartbeat and it feels [ __ ]
 
 
heartbeat and it feels [ __ ]
 
 
heartbeat and it feels [ __ ]
incredible this whole surgery I will say
 
 
incredible this whole surgery I will say
 
 
incredible this whole surgery I will say
that it changed me it changed the way I
 
 
that it changed me it changed the way I
 
 
that it changed me it changed the way I
see myself it changed the way I defined
 
 
see myself it changed the way I defined
 
 
see myself it changed the way I defined
myself it changed the way I introduced
 
 
myself it changed the way I introduced
 
 
myself it changed the way I introduced
myself to the world I'm now in a space
 
 
myself to the world I'm now in a space
 
 
myself to the world I'm now in a space
where I understand this isn't my end
 
 
where I understand this isn't my end
 
 
where I understand this isn't my end
result we just got one more surgery so
 
 
result we just got one more surgery so
 
 
result we just got one more surgery so
it's just that last step where dr. O
 
 
it's just that last step where dr. O
 
 
it's just that last step where dr. O
bings gonna assist me in getting my
 
 
bings gonna assist me in getting my
 
 
bings gonna assist me in getting my
vagina I'm defining me and who and what
 
 
vagina I'm defining me and who and what
 
 
vagina I'm defining me and who and what
I am and my female expression is mine
 
 
I am and my female expression is mine
 
 
I am and my female expression is mine
and don't you dare tell me how to be
 
 
and don't you dare tell me how to be
 
 
and don't you dare tell me how to be
thank you for whatching refinery29 for
 
 
thank you for whatching refinery29 for
 
 
thank you for whatching refinery29 for
more videos click here and a subscribe
 
 
more videos click here and a subscribe
 
 
more videos click here and a subscribe
click here

 
hey guys welcome back to my youtube

 
hey guys welcome back to my youtube

 
hey guys welcome back to my youtube
channel so today i'm here with another

 
channel so today i'm here with another

 
channel so today i'm here with another
video

 
video

 
video
and i was laying in bed yesterday and i

 
and i was laying in bed yesterday and i

 
and i was laying in bed yesterday and i
was just like
 
 
was just like
 
 
was just like
thinking that i haven't really talked
 
 
thinking that i haven't really talked
 
 
thinking that i haven't really talked
about like me being transgender in a
 
 
about like me being transgender in a
 
 
about like me being transgender in a
long time
 
 
long time
 
 
long time
i feel like i talk a lot about it and i
 
 
i feel like i talk a lot about it and i
 
 
i feel like i talk a lot about it and i
do but it's not really on my
 
 
do but it's not really on my
 
 
do but it's not really on my
own platforms i do talk a lot about it
 
 
own platforms i do talk a lot about it
 
 
own platforms i do talk a lot about it
in
 
 
in
 
 
in
interviews and stuff here in norway but
 
 
interviews and stuff here in norway but
 
 
interviews and stuff here in norway but
i still really want to share my story
 
 
i still really want to share my story
 
 
i still really want to share my story
and if it can help anyone else that's
 
 
and if it can help anyone else that's
 
 
and if it can help anyone else that's
all i want you know
 
 
all i want you know
 
 
all i want you know
so yeah i asked you guys to ask me
 
 
so yeah i asked you guys to ask me
 
 
so yeah i asked you guys to ask me
questions and i have made a video about
 
 
questions and i have made a video about
 
 
questions and i have made a video about
this before but that is really cringy so
 
 
this before but that is really cringy so
 
 
this before but that is really cringy so
i don't know if this is like a part two
 
 
i don't know if this is like a part two
 
 
i don't know if this is like a part two
or just like
 
 
or just like
 
 
or just like
if i'm just gonna like answer the same
 
 
if i'm just gonna like answer the same
 
 
if i'm just gonna like answer the same
questions again but i will just see what
 
 
questions again but i will just see what
 
 
questions again but i will just see what
questions i've gotten and
 
 
questions i've gotten and
 
 
questions i've gotten and
you know answer hey that's what we do in
 
 
you know answer hey that's what we do in
 
 
you know answer hey that's what we do in
a q a
 
 
a q a
 
 
a q a
anyways so first this is a really good
 
 
anyways so first this is a really good
 
 
anyways so first this is a really good
question to start off with
 
 
question to start off with
 
 
question to start off with
how and when did you know so i feel like
 
 
how and when did you know so i feel like
 
 
how and when did you know so i feel like
i've
 
 
i've
 
 
i've
known kind of my entire life but i just
 
 
known kind of my entire life but i just
 
 
known kind of my entire life but i just
haven't had
 
 
haven't had
 
 
haven't had
the answers i was really lucky and i had
 
 
the answers i was really lucky and i had
 
 
the answers i was really lucky and i had
amazing people around me in my childhood
 
 
amazing people around me in my childhood
 
 
amazing people around me in my childhood
and because of that i've had
 
 
and because of that i've had
 
 
and because of that i've had
the opportunity to be myself every day
 
 
the opportunity to be myself every day
 
 
the opportunity to be myself every day
and to
 
 
and to
 
 
and to
play with the toys i want to play with
 
 
play with the toys i want to play with
 
 
play with the toys i want to play with
and just how i want
 
 
and just how i want
 
 
and just how i want
and everything i don't know i think
 
 
and everything i don't know i think
 
 
and everything i don't know i think
because of that i didn't really search
 
 
because of that i didn't really search
 
 
because of that i didn't really search
for an answer in like my early
 
 
for an answer in like my early
 
 
for an answer in like my early
stages of life because i felt like i
 
 
stages of life because i felt like i
 
 
stages of life because i felt like i
could just be myself
 
 
could just be myself
 
 
could just be myself
but when i was seven or eight i watched
 
 
but when i was seven or eight i watched
 
 
but when i was seven or eight i watched
a documentary about people that were
 
 
a documentary about people that were
 
 
a documentary about people that were
transgender
 
 
transgender
 
 
transgender
and after that i kind of got like
 
 
and after that i kind of got like
 
 
and after that i kind of got like
answers i
 
 
answers i
 
 
answers i
just i could relate to the people i saw
 
 
just i could relate to the people i saw
 
 
just i could relate to the people i saw
on the screen and i could
 
 
on the screen and i could
 
 
on the screen and i could
i just i don't know i just i i felt
 
 
i just i don't know i just i i felt
 
 
i just i don't know i just i i felt
really happy
 
 
really happy
 
 
really happy
because then i understood what i felt
 
 
because then i understood what i felt
 
 
because then i understood what i felt
if that makes sense so after that i sent
 
 
if that makes sense so after that i sent
 
 
if that makes sense so after that i sent
a text message to my mom and just
 
 
a text message to my mom and just
 
 
a text message to my mom and just
basically told her
 
 
basically told her
 
 
basically told her
everything and i remember i was so
 
 
everything and i remember i was so
 
 
everything and i remember i was so
nervous um
 
 
nervous um
 
 
nervous um
but yeah and that's how kind of like the
 
 
but yeah and that's how kind of like the
 
 
but yeah and that's how kind of like the
journey began
 
 
journey began
 
 
journey began
i was eight or seven but i didn't change
 
 
i was eight or seven but i didn't change
 
 
i was eight or seven but i didn't change
my name until i was
 
 
my name until i was
 
 
my name until i was
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was
 
 
was
 
 
was
time we needed you know so but yeah
 
 
time we needed you know so but yeah
 
 
time we needed you know so but yeah
anyways
 
 
anyways
 
 
anyways
um i'm sorry i'm just i'm kind of
 
 
um i'm sorry i'm just i'm kind of
 
 
um i'm sorry i'm just i'm kind of
nervous to make this video i don't know
 
 
nervous to make this video i don't know
 
 
nervous to make this video i don't know
why but i'm kind of nervous right now
 
 
why but i'm kind of nervous right now
 
 
why but i'm kind of nervous right now
but it's good okay so a lot of people
 
 
but it's good okay so a lot of people
 
 
but it's good okay so a lot of people
are wondering about my voice and why i
 
 
are wondering about my voice and why i
 
 
are wondering about my voice and why i
don't have a man voice
 
 
don't have a man voice
 
 
don't have a man voice
and i can just quickly explain that i
 
 
and i can just quickly explain that i
 
 
and i can just quickly explain that i
started on blockers which just stops the
 
 
started on blockers which just stops the
 
 
started on blockers which just stops the
makeup puberty
 
 
makeup puberty
 
 
makeup puberty
when i was 13 i think
 
 
when i was 13 i think
 
 
when i was 13 i think
um and that yeah that stopped the male
 
 
um and that yeah that stopped the male
 
 
um and that yeah that stopped the male
puberty so i didn't get
 
 
puberty so i didn't get
 
 
puberty so i didn't get
a darker voice i didn't get any facial
 
 
a darker voice i didn't get any facial
 
 
a darker voice i didn't get any facial
hair so that's why i don't have a darker
 
 
hair so that's why i don't have a darker
 
 
hair so that's why i don't have a darker
voice
 
 
voice
 
 
voice
um that's just like quickly explained
 
 
um that's just like quickly explained
 
 
um that's just like quickly explained
and also this doesn't have anything to
 
 
and also this doesn't have anything to
 
 
and also this doesn't have anything to
do with my voice but
 
 
do with my voice but
 
 
do with my voice but
when i was 16 i started on female
 
 
when i was 16 i started on female
 
 
when i was 16 i started on female
hormones
 
 
hormones
 
 
hormones
and to be honest i didn't really feel
 
 
and to be honest i didn't really feel
 
 
and to be honest i didn't really feel
anything different
 
 
anything different
 
 
anything different
after i started on that but i definitely
 
 
after i started on that but i definitely
 
 
after i started on that but i definitely
got a little bit of
 
 
got a little bit of
 
 
got a little bit of
boobs so i still take the hormones and i
 
 
boobs so i still take the hormones and i
 
 
boobs so i still take the hormones and i
still take the blockers the blockers
 
 
still take the blockers the blockers
 
 
still take the blockers the blockers
it's a shot that i take every third
 
 
it's a shot that i take every third
 
 
it's a shot that i take every third
month
 
 
month
 
 
month
and the hormones are just a little pill
 
 
and the hormones are just a little pill
 
 
and the hormones are just a little pill
it's kind of like a birth control belt
 
 
it's kind of like a birth control belt
 
 
it's kind of like a birth control belt
hi guys i quickly just wanted to say
 
 
hi guys i quickly just wanted to say
 
 
hi guys i quickly just wanted to say
that i have understood that
 
 
that i have understood that
 
 
that i have understood that
there's when it comes to like the
 
 
there's when it comes to like the
 
 
there's when it comes to like the
hormones and blockers and everything
 
 
hormones and blockers and everything
 
 
hormones and blockers and everything
um it's really different from every
 
 
um it's really different from every
 
 
um it's really different from every
country
 
 
country
 
 
country
so yeah this is just how i do it here in
 
 
so yeah this is just how i do it here in
 
 
so yeah this is just how i do it here in
norway
 
 
norway
 
 
norway
and i know that many other people i know
 
 
and i know that many other people i know
 
 
and i know that many other people i know
do like this in norway
 
 
do like this in norway
 
 
do like this in norway
but yeah i it doesn't matter i just
 
 
but yeah i it doesn't matter i just
 
 
but yeah i it doesn't matter i just
quickly wanted to say
 
 
quickly wanted to say
 
 
quickly wanted to say
do you ever feel alone i am really lucky
 
 
do you ever feel alone i am really lucky
 
 
do you ever feel alone i am really lucky
because i have
 
 
because i have
 
 
because i have
so many amazing transgender friends that
 
 
so many amazing transgender friends that
 
 
so many amazing transgender friends that
are
 
 
are
 
 
are
literally some of like my best friends
 
 
literally some of like my best friends
 
 
literally some of like my best friends
which i know has been super helpful for
 
 
which i know has been super helpful for
 
 
which i know has been super helpful for
me
 
 
me
 
 
me
um because we can share advice
 
 
um because we can share advice
 
 
um because we can share advice
and we can we we just like help each
 
 
and we can we we just like help each
 
 
and we can we we just like help each
other through and i think that's really
 
 
other through and i think that's really
 
 
other through and i think that's really
important
 
 
important
 
 
important
i don't really feel alone um and
 
 
i don't really feel alone um and
 
 
i don't really feel alone um and
i of course have my family also which
 
 
i of course have my family also which
 
 
i of course have my family also which
has been super supportive
 
 
has been super supportive
 
 
has been super supportive
and yeah i'm just i'm really really
 
 
and yeah i'm just i'm really really
 
 
and yeah i'm just i'm really really
grateful for the people around me
 
 
grateful for the people around me
 
 
grateful for the people around me
i really am and i think that's really
 
 
i really am and i think that's really
 
 
i really am and i think that's really
important when you go through things
 
 
important when you go through things
 
 
important when you go through things
like this also
 
 
like this also
 
 
like this also
so yeah i'm really really grateful also
 
 
so yeah i'm really really grateful also
 
 
so yeah i'm really really grateful also
if you're trans and you
 
 
if you're trans and you
 
 
if you're trans and you
don't have anyone to talk to or just you
 
 
don't have anyone to talk to or just you
 
 
don't have anyone to talk to or just you
know need advice or anything then you
 
 
know need advice or anything then you
 
 
know need advice or anything then you
can of course send me a dm
 
 
can of course send me a dm
 
 
can of course send me a dm
and i will try to respond i don't really
 
 
and i will try to respond i don't really
 
 
and i will try to respond i don't really
check my dms that often but i will try
 
 
check my dms that often but i will try
 
 
check my dms that often but i will try
to get better at that i think it's
 
 
to get better at that i think it's
 
 
to get better at that i think it's
really important to
 
 
really important to
 
 
really important to
feel like you have someone in your life
 
 
feel like you have someone in your life
 
 
feel like you have someone in your life
that you can talk to and everything how
 
 
that you can talk to and everything how
 
 
that you can talk to and everything how
is dating for you
 
 
is dating for you
 
 
is dating for you
i don't really date and i'm not really
 
 
i don't really date and i'm not really
 
 
i don't really date and i'm not really
like interested in getting a boyfriend
 
 
like interested in getting a boyfriend
 
 
like interested in getting a boyfriend
or anything
 
 
or anything
 
 
or anything
yeah it may be harder for me because i
 
 
yeah it may be harder for me because i
 
 
yeah it may be harder for me because i
am transgender but i feel like everyone
 
 
am transgender but i feel like everyone
 
 
am transgender but i feel like everyone
has their
 
 
has their
 
 
has their
things that is a part of them that they
 
 
things that is a part of them that they
 
 
things that is a part of them that they
can change which may
 
 
can change which may
 
 
can change which may
be hard for the other part to understand
 
 
be hard for the other part to understand
 
 
be hard for the other part to understand
so i'm not really that worried about
 
 
so i'm not really that worried about
 
 
so i'm not really that worried about
dating because i know that there are
 
 
dating because i know that there are
 
 
dating because i know that there are
guys
 
 
guys
 
 
guys
out there that will accept me for being
 
 
out there that will accept me for being
 
 
out there that will accept me for being
meme
 
 
meme
 
 
meme
yeah and i know that they're just like
 
 
yeah and i know that they're just like
 
 
yeah and i know that they're just like
real nice men out there i feel weird
 
 
real nice men out there i feel weird
 
 
real nice men out there i feel weird
when i say men
 
 
when i say men
 
 
when i say men
because i'm like 19. i don't know
 
 
because i'm like 19. i don't know
 
 
because i'm like 19. i don't know
i will come back to you guys when i
 
 
i will come back to you guys when i
 
 
i will come back to you guys when i
start dating
 
 
start dating
 
 
start dating
how about that i see that there's a lot
 
 
how about that i see that there's a lot
 
 
how about that i see that there's a lot
of questions about surgeries
 
 
of questions about surgeries
 
 
of questions about surgeries
and this makes me really nervous to talk
 
 
and this makes me really nervous to talk
 
 
and this makes me really nervous to talk
about but yes
 
 
about but yes
 
 
about but yes
i have had my boobs done i did get a
 
 
i have had my boobs done i did get a
 
 
i have had my boobs done i did get a
little bit of boobs from
 
 
little bit of boobs from
 
 
little bit of boobs from
my hormones but i still really wanted a
 
 
my hormones but i still really wanted a
 
 
my hormones but i still really wanted a
little bit bigger boobs and i don't have
 
 
little bit bigger boobs and i don't have
 
 
little bit bigger boobs and i don't have
big boobs at all
 
 
big boobs at all
 
 
big boobs at all
but i i'm really happy with them i don't
 
 
but i i'm really happy with them i don't
 
 
but i i'm really happy with them i don't
really want to talk that much about it
 
 
really want to talk that much about it
 
 
really want to talk that much about it
because i don't
 
 
because i don't
 
 
because i don't
feel like that's like what we need to
 
 
feel like that's like what we need to
 
 
feel like that's like what we need to
talk about because at the end of the day
 
 
talk about because at the end of the day
 
 
talk about because at the end of the day
i don't feel like anyone should care
 
 
i don't feel like anyone should care
 
 
i don't feel like anyone should care
about that and i don't think anyone
 
 
about that and i don't think anyone
 
 
about that and i don't think anyone
should
 
 
should
 
 
should
think that they need anything i didn't
 
 
think that they need anything i didn't
 
 
think that they need anything i didn't
do it to fit into anyone
 
 
do it to fit into anyone
 
 
do it to fit into anyone
else's body standards no i only did it
 
 
else's body standards no i only did it
 
 
else's body standards no i only did it
for me myself and i
 
 
for me myself and i
 
 
for me myself and i
so yeah i just felt the need for you
 
 
so yeah i just felt the need for you
 
 
so yeah i just felt the need for you
guys to know but i haven't had anything
 
 
guys to know but i haven't had anything
 
 
guys to know but i haven't had anything
else done
 
 
else done
 
 
else done
i also just quickly wanted to say that i
 
 
i also just quickly wanted to say that i
 
 
i also just quickly wanted to say that i
felt the need to tell you guys about
 
 
felt the need to tell you guys about
 
 
felt the need to tell you guys about
that surgery because
 
 
that surgery because
 
 
that surgery because
i get a lot of questions from other
 
 
i get a lot of questions from other
 
 
i get a lot of questions from other
trans girls that are wondering
 
 
trans girls that are wondering
 
 
trans girls that are wondering
about about my boobs and
 
 
about about my boobs and
 
 
about about my boobs and
asking me if it's from hormones and
 
 
asking me if it's from hormones and
 
 
asking me if it's from hormones and
they're like oh my god what hormones do
 
 
they're like oh my god what hormones do
 
 
they're like oh my god what hormones do
you
 
 
you
 
 
you
like go on if you get that big boobs and
 
 
like go on if you get that big boobs and
 
 
like go on if you get that big boobs and
blah blah
 
 
blah blah
 
 
blah blah
so yeah i just want you guys to know my
 
 
so yeah i just want you guys to know my
 
 
so yeah i just want you guys to know my
boobs are the only surgery i've had done
 
 
boobs are the only surgery i've had done
 
 
boobs are the only surgery i've had done
but i am waiting on the
 
 
but i am waiting on the
 
 
but i am waiting on the
surgery if you guys know what i mean um
 
 
surgery if you guys know what i mean um
 
 
surgery if you guys know what i mean um
so yeah i'm waiting on that and i
 
 
so yeah i'm waiting on that and i
 
 
so yeah i'm waiting on that and i
probably will get it
 
 
probably will get it
 
 
probably will get it
really soon i hope um i've been waiting
 
 
really soon i hope um i've been waiting
 
 
really soon i hope um i've been waiting
for a long time
 
 
for a long time
 
 
for a long time
so yeah but i will keep you guys updated
 
 
so yeah but i will keep you guys updated
 
 
so yeah but i will keep you guys updated
on that but i think i will feel more
 
 
on that but i think i will feel more
 
 
on that but i think i will feel more
comfortable talking about that
 
 
comfortable talking about that
 
 
comfortable talking about that
when it's done you know
 
 
when it's done you know
 
 
when it's done you know
but yeah and also i just want to say you
 
 
but yeah and also i just want to say you
 
 
but yeah and also i just want to say you
don't need any surgeries to be
 
 
don't need any surgeries to be
 
 
don't need any surgeries to be
you and if you don't want to have the
 
 
you and if you don't want to have the
 
 
you and if you don't want to have the
bottom surgery that is okay
 
 
bottom surgery that is okay
 
 
bottom surgery that is okay
that does not make you less woman
 
 
that does not make you less woman
 
 
that does not make you less woman
or man it doesn't let's keep on going
 
 
or man it doesn't let's keep on going
 
 
or man it doesn't let's keep on going
oh this is a good one i love when people
 
 
oh this is a good one i love when people
 
 
oh this is a good one i love when people
are like asking
 
 
are like asking
 
 
are like asking
real genuine questions because they want
 
 
real genuine questions because they want
 
 
real genuine questions because they want
to be more educated
 
 
to be more educated
 
 
to be more educated
so this girl asked if you were born a
 
 
so this girl asked if you were born a
 
 
so this girl asked if you were born a
boy
 
 
boy
 
 
boy
but became a girl are you a trans boy or
 
 
but became a girl are you a trans boy or
 
 
but became a girl are you a trans boy or
a trans girl
 
 
a trans girl
 
 
a trans girl
i'm a trans girl because i'm a girl
 
 
i'm a trans girl because i'm a girl
 
 
i'm a trans girl because i'm a girl
but i'm transgender so i'm a trans girl
 
 
but i'm transgender so i'm a trans girl
 
 
but i'm transgender so i'm a trans girl
thanks for asking honestly i feel like
 
 
thanks for asking honestly i feel like
 
 
thanks for asking honestly i feel like
if anyone has something like a genuine
 
 
if anyone has something like a genuine
 
 
if anyone has something like a genuine
question then please ask because it's
 
 
question then please ask because it's
 
 
question then please ask because it's
better to be educated than to go around
 
 
better to be educated than to go around
 
 
better to be educated than to go around
and like
 
 
and like
 
 
and like
think you know the answer but then the
 
 
think you know the answer but then the
 
 
think you know the answer but then the
answer is wrong and then you offend a
 
 
answer is wrong and then you offend a
 
 
answer is wrong and then you offend a
lot of people it's not that good
 
 
lot of people it's not that good
 
 
lot of people it's not that good
oh i also get a lot of like i don't
 
 
oh i also get a lot of like i don't
 
 
oh i also get a lot of like i don't
think you're transgender
 
 
think you're transgender
 
 
think you're transgender
you're lying and i just want to say one
 
 
you're lying and i just want to say one
 
 
you're lying and i just want to say one
thing because i do get a lot of comments
 
 
thing because i do get a lot of comments
 
 
thing because i do get a lot of comments
being like
 
 
being like
 
 
being like
oh wow like you did not look transgender
 
 
oh wow like you did not look transgender
 
 
oh wow like you did not look transgender
it just goes to show that people have
 
 
it just goes to show that people have
 
 
it just goes to show that people have
this image of what a trans
 
 
this image of what a trans
 
 
this image of what a trans
person should look like i just want
 
 
person should look like i just want
 
 
person should look like i just want
people to know that being transgender
 
 
people to know that being transgender
 
 
people to know that being transgender
isn't like a look it's not a
 
 
isn't like a look it's not a
 
 
isn't like a look it's not a
face it's not like not every trans
 
 
face it's not like not every trans
 
 
face it's not like not every trans
person look the same and that is really
 
 
person look the same and that is really
 
 
person look the same and that is really
important to know what about having kids
 
 
important to know what about having kids
 
 
important to know what about having kids
are you gonna adopt
 
 
are you gonna adopt
 
 
are you gonna adopt
i just now have been thinking about
 
 
i just now have been thinking about
 
 
i just now have been thinking about
getting kids or not right now of course
 
 
getting kids or not right now of course
 
 
getting kids or not right now of course
i think i'm gonna adopt and i i don't
 
 
i think i'm gonna adopt and i i don't
 
 
i think i'm gonna adopt and i i don't
know i don't really have anything
 
 
know i don't really have anything
 
 
know i don't really have anything
against it
 
 
against it
 
 
against it
being able to adopt is also a gift
 
 
being able to adopt is also a gift
 
 
being able to adopt is also a gift
and helping someone that needs a home
 
 
and helping someone that needs a home
 
 
and helping someone that needs a home
and that needs you know a roof over
 
 
and that needs you know a roof over
 
 
and that needs you know a roof over
their head it's
 
 
their head it's
 
 
their head it's
a gift kinda i feel like i'm really
 
 
a gift kinda i feel like i'm really
 
 
a gift kinda i feel like i'm really
happy with the thought that i'm gonna
 
 
happy with the thought that i'm gonna
 
 
happy with the thought that i'm gonna
adopt one day
 
 
adopt one day
 
 
adopt one day
so yeah i'm pretty sure i'm gonna adopt
 
 
so yeah i'm pretty sure i'm gonna adopt
 
 
so yeah i'm pretty sure i'm gonna adopt
if i'm
 
 
if i'm
 
 
if i'm
if i'm getting kids uh okay so i'm going
 
 
if i'm getting kids uh okay so i'm going
 
 
if i'm getting kids uh okay so i'm going
through the questions right now and i
 
 
through the questions right now and i
 
 
through the questions right now and i
think i've answered anything everything
 
 
think i've answered anything everything
 
 
think i've answered anything everything
because
 
 
because
 
 
because
i don't know i just see the same
 
 
i don't know i just see the same
 
 
i don't know i just see the same
questions over and over again thank you
 
 
questions over and over again thank you
 
 
questions over and over again thank you
guys so so so much for watching
 
 
guys so so so much for watching
 
 
guys so so so much for watching
hey guys before i go i just quickly
 
 
hey guys before i go i just quickly
 
 
hey guys before i go i just quickly
wanted to
 
 
wanted to
 
 
wanted to
say again that this is just my story and
 
 
say again that this is just my story and
 
 
say again that this is just my story and
this is just like my opinions about
 
 
this is just like my opinions about
 
 
this is just like my opinions about
things i know
 
 
things i know
 
 
things i know
a lot of different trans people that
 
 
a lot of different trans people that
 
 
a lot of different trans people that
have different opinions than i have
 
 
have different opinions than i have
 
 
have different opinions than i have
um but yeah i just think it's important
 
 
um but yeah i just think it's important
 
 
um but yeah i just think it's important
to know that every
 
 
to know that every
 
 
to know that every
person are different and have different
 
 
person are different and have different
 
 
person are different and have different
meanings about things and everything
 
 
meanings about things and everything
 
 
meanings about things and everything
and also if you have a story that you
 
 
and also if you have a story that you
 
 
and also if you have a story that you
want to share
 
 
want to share
 
 
want to share
i really just want to say that you
 
 
i really just want to say that you
 
 
i really just want to say that you
should um because i know that there's
 
 
should um because i know that there's
 
 
should um because i know that there's
people out there that may
 
 
people out there that may
 
 
people out there that may
find help in that so if you whatever it
 
 
find help in that so if you whatever it
 
 
find help in that so if you whatever it
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
if you want to talk about something you
 
 
if you want to talk about something you
 
 
if you want to talk about something you
should okay
 
 
should okay
 
 
should okay
i really hope you guys enjoyed and i
 
 
i really hope you guys enjoyed and i
 
 
i really hope you guys enjoyed and i
hope
 
 
hope
 
 
hope
this video may have helped anyone or
 
 
this video may have helped anyone or
 
 
this video may have helped anyone or
just know that as i said you can
 
 
just know that as i said you can
 
 
just know that as i said you can
contact me whenever you want if you feel
 
 
contact me whenever you want if you feel
 
 
contact me whenever you want if you feel
the need to talk
 
 
the need to talk
 
 
the need to talk
or whatever and i will try to reply as i
 
 
or whatever and i will try to reply as i
 
 
or whatever and i will try to reply as i
said i don't really check my dms that
 
 
said i don't really check my dms that
 
 
said i don't really check my dms that
often but i will
 
 
often but i will
 
 
often but i will
get better at that okay so my camera
 
 
get better at that okay so my camera
 
 
get better at that okay so my camera
died
 
 
died
 
 
died
but thank you guys so much for watching
 
 
but thank you guys so much for watching
 
 
but thank you guys so much for watching
and if you have any more questions
 
 
and if you have any more questions
 
 
and if you have any more questions
then please feel free to
 
 
then please feel free to
 
 
then please feel free to
comment or send me a dm or anything like
 
 
comment or send me a dm or anything like
 
 
comment or send me a dm or anything like
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
um and i may make it part two if that's
 
 
um and i may make it part two if that's
 
 
um and i may make it part two if that's
something people are interested in um
 
 
something people are interested in um
 
 
something people are interested in um
and yeah
 
 
and yeah
 
 
and yeah
thank you guys so much for watching
 
 
thank you guys so much for watching
 
 
thank you guys so much for watching
remember to follow me on instagram
 
 
remember to follow me on instagram
 
 
remember to follow me on instagram
and yeah it's
 
 
and yeah it's
 
 
and yeah it's
down below you can find everything down
 
 
down below you can find everything down
 
 
down below you can find everything down
below okay
 
 
below okay
 
 
below okay
but i'll talk to you guys later

 
a proposal to ban transgender girls in

 
a proposal to ban transgender girls in

 
a proposal to ban transgender girls in
kentucky from playing school sports that

 
kentucky from playing school sports that

 
kentucky from playing school sports that
match their gender identity is now

 
match their gender identity is now

 
match their gender identity is now
moving to its next step

 
moving to its next step

 
moving to its next step
governor andy beshear's desk the senate
 
 
governor andy beshear's desk the senate
 
 
governor andy beshear's desk the senate
in the content in frankfort gave their
 
 
in the content in frankfort gave their
 
 
in the content in frankfort gave their
final approval to the bill late this
 
 
final approval to the bill late this
 
 
final approval to the bill late this
afternoon despite some kentucky senators
 
 
afternoon despite some kentucky senators
 
 
afternoon despite some kentucky senators
questioning why the bill is actually
 
 
questioning why the bill is actually
 
 
questioning why the bill is actually
needed
 
 
needed
 
 
needed
we're regulating the children's sports
 
 
we're regulating the children's sports
 
 
we're regulating the children's sports
at the state legislature something we
 
 
at the state legislature something we
 
 
at the state legislature something we
haven't done for an issue that has not
 
 
haven't done for an issue that has not
 
 
haven't done for an issue that has not
been an issue because a committee they
 
 
been an issue because a committee they
 
 
been an issue because a committee they
testified over and over again how often
 
 
testified over and over again how often
 
 
testified over and over again how often
does this happen what type of issue is
 
 
does this happen what type of issue is
 
 
does this happen what type of issue is
it is it something we need to work on
 
 
it is it something we need to work on
 
 
it is it something we need to work on
no no no
 
 
no no no
 
 
no no no
yet here we are
 
 
yet here we are
 
 
yet here we are
after some changes in the house bill the
 
 
after some changes in the house bill the
 
 
after some changes in the house bill the
bill now applies to sports from sixth
 
 
bill now applies to sports from sixth
 
 
bill now applies to sports from sixth
grade to college
 
 
grade to college
 
 
grade to college
the addition of these of the college
 
 
the addition of these of the college
 
 
the addition of these of the college
athletics to this bill uh
 
 
athletics to this bill uh
 
 
athletics to this bill uh
in my opinion is stronger
 
 
in my opinion is stronger
 
 
in my opinion is stronger
because it protects all women and girls
 
 
because it protects all women and girls
 
 
because it protects all women and girls
an 18 year old college freshman has the
 
 
an 18 year old college freshman has the
 
 
an 18 year old college freshman has the
same right to a fair and level playing
 
 
same right to a fair and level playing
 
 
same right to a fair and level playing
field as an 18 year old high school
 
 
field as an 18 year old high school
 
 
field as an 18 year old high school
senior
 
 
senior
 
 
senior
the fairness campaign quickly responded
 
 
the fairness campaign quickly responded
 
 
the fairness campaign quickly responded
with a statement saying in part shame on
 
 
with a statement saying in part shame on
 
 
with a statement saying in part shame on
the kentucky general assembly for
 
 
the kentucky general assembly for
 
 
the kentucky general assembly for
prioritizing discrimination against some
 
 
prioritizing discrimination against some
 
 
prioritizing discrimination against some
of our state's most vulnerable youth
 
 
of our state's most vulnerable youth
 
 
of our state's most vulnerable youth
they are urging the governor to veto the
 
 
they are urging the governor to veto the
 
 
they are urging the governor to veto the
bill

 
the right of a transgender woman

 
the right of a transgender woman

 
the right of a transgender woman
to compete in women's sports

 
to compete in women's sports

 
to compete in women's sports
do you think

 
do you think

 
do you think
congress of the people ought to get to

 
congress of the people ought to get to

 
congress of the people ought to get to
decide that through congress or the
 
 
decide that through congress or the
 
 
decide that through congress or the
judge can just find it
 
 
judge can just find it
 
 
judge can just find it
as an unenumerated right
 
 
as an unenumerated right
 
 
as an unenumerated right
a penumbra
 
 
a penumbra
 
 
a penumbra
of the constitution
 
 
of the constitution
 
 
of the constitution
well senator that
 
 
 
 
the topic that you raised is something
 
 
the topic that you raised is something
 
 
the topic that you raised is something
that is
 
 
that is
 
 
that is
as you say a hot topic today and could
 
 
as you say a hot topic today and could
 
 
as you say a hot topic today and could
certainly be litigated
 
 
certainly be litigated
 
 
certainly be litigated
um so i'm not in a position to
 
 
um so i'm not in a position to
 
 
um so i'm not in a position to
to say more about
 
 
to say more about
 
 
to say more about
whether or not um it's actually one of
 
 
whether or not um it's actually one of
 
 
whether or not um it's actually one of
the unenumerated right
 
 
the unenumerated right
 
 
the unenumerated right
i don't want to ask you how you'd rule
 
 
i don't want to ask you how you'd rule
 
 
i don't want to ask you how you'd rule
but would you have any problems saying
 
 
but would you have any problems saying
 
 
but would you have any problems saying
okay if that case that is litigated
 
 
okay if that case that is litigated
 
 
okay if that case that is litigated
saying
 
 
saying
 
 
saying
this is a political question whoa stop
 
 
this is a political question whoa stop
 
 
this is a political question whoa stop
i'm staying in my lane
 
 
i'm staying in my lane
 
 
i'm staying in my lane
congress needs to decide this case the
 
 
congress needs to decide this case the
 
 
congress needs to decide this case the
people need to decide that through their
 
 
people need to decide that through their
 
 
people need to decide that through their
elected representatives
 
 
elected representatives
 
 
elected representatives
would that be appropriate well
 
 
would that be appropriate well
 
 
would that be appropriate well
respectfully senator that is a decision
 
 
respectfully senator that is a decision
 
 
respectfully senator that is a decision
in other words you say i'm not asking
 
 
in other words you say i'm not asking
 
 
in other words you say i'm not asking
you to decide it but
 
 
you to decide it but
 
 
you to decide it but
in every case the determination about
 
 
in every case the determination about
 
 
in every case the determination about
whether or not something is a political
 
 
whether or not something is a political
 
 
whether or not something is a political
question or whether or not the court has
 
 
question or whether or not the court has
 
 
question or whether or not the court has
or has not jurisdiction is
 
 
or has not jurisdiction is
 
 
or has not jurisdiction is
an issue for judges and so i'm i'm not
 
 
an issue for judges and so i'm i'm not
 
 
an issue for judges and so i'm i'm not
able to speak to it okay

 
so were you kind of happy to let them

 
so were you kind of happy to let them

 
so were you kind of happy to let them
would you let them you know I was I was

 
would you let them you know I was I was

 
would you let them you know I was I was
pretty scared I went up in front of my

 
pretty scared I went up in front of my

 
pretty scared I went up in front of my
commander and the doctor and a whole

 
commander and the doctor and a whole

 
commander and the doctor and a whole
bunch of people and I said I'm
 
 
bunch of people and I said I'm
 
 
bunch of people and I said I'm
transgender and please let me keep my
 
 
transgender and please let me keep my
 
 
transgender and please let me keep my
job
 
 
 
 
hi I'm Kara IRISA hi nice to meet you
 
 
hi I'm Kara IRISA hi nice to meet you
 
 
hi I'm Kara IRISA hi nice to meet you
nice to meet you baby my name is ISA
 
 
nice to meet you baby my name is ISA
 
 
nice to meet you baby my name is ISA
you son yeah that's nice to meet you do
 
 
you son yeah that's nice to meet you do
 
 
you son yeah that's nice to meet you do
you know what we're here to talk about
 
 
 
 
you have a dangerous job or do you have
 
 
you have a dangerous job or do you have
 
 
you have a dangerous job or do you have
like a normal job that someone would
 
 
like a normal job that someone would
 
 
like a normal job that someone would
well I'm in the Army Wow nice what like
 
 
well I'm in the Army Wow nice what like
 
 
well I'm in the Army Wow nice what like
which position are you on my rank is
 
 
which position are you on my rank is
 
 
which position are you on my rank is
Staff Sergeant so I have about 10
 
 
Staff Sergeant so I have about 10
 
 
Staff Sergeant so I have about 10
soldiers under me that I'm responsible
 
 
soldiers under me that I'm responsible
 
 
soldiers under me that I'm responsible
for training um have you been in the
 
 
for training um have you been in the
 
 
for training um have you been in the
army
 
 
army
 
 
army
how old are you unfix your six so I've
 
 
how old are you unfix your six so I've
 
 
how old are you unfix your six so I've
been in the Army for twice as long as
 
 
been in the Army for twice as long as
 
 
been in the Army for twice as long as
you've been alive
 
 
you've been alive
 
 
you've been alive
Oh what is your favorite thing to do in
 
 
Oh what is your favorite thing to do in
 
 
Oh what is your favorite thing to do in
the Army riding in a helicopter there's
 
 
the Army riding in a helicopter there's
 
 
the Army riding in a helicopter there's
just that never gets old like do you get
 
 
just that never gets old like do you get
 
 
just that never gets old like do you get
a ride horses
 
 
a ride horses
 
 
a ride horses
i I do not get to ride horses have you
 
 
i I do not get to ride horses have you
 
 
i I do not get to ride horses have you
been to war I have I went to Iraq in
 
 
been to war I have I went to Iraq in
 
 
been to war I have I went to Iraq in
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decisions that you have to make very
 
 
decisions that you have to make very
 
 
decisions that you have to make very
quickly and some of those decisions are
 
 
quickly and some of those decisions are
 
 
quickly and some of those decisions are
life and death and that isn't easy so
 
 
life and death and that isn't easy so
 
 
life and death and that isn't easy so
you know I'm in the military yeah do you
 
 
you know I'm in the military yeah do you
 
 
you know I'm in the military yeah do you
know what else
 
 
know what else
 
 
know what else
 
 
 
 
No do you know what it means to be
 
 
No do you know what it means to be
 
 
No do you know what it means to be
transgender hmm no I you know when
 
 
transgender hmm no I you know when
 
 
transgender hmm no I you know when
you're born the doctor says it's boy or
 
 
you're born the doctor says it's boy or
 
 
you're born the doctor says it's boy or
it's a girl and sometimes they're wrong
 
 
it's a girl and sometimes they're wrong
 
 
it's a girl and sometimes they're wrong
sometimes you know sometimes when you as
 
 
sometimes you know sometimes when you as
 
 
sometimes you know sometimes when you as
you get older you realize that's not
 
 
you get older you realize that's not
 
 
you get older you realize that's not
right and so you change you transition
 
 
right and so you change you transition
 
 
right and so you change you transition
from one to the other I felt like I
 
 
from one to the other I felt like I
 
 
from one to the other I felt like I
could tell but I don't want to make you
 
 
could tell but I don't want to make you
 
 
could tell but I don't want to make you
read or anything sometimes yeah what
 
 
read or anything sometimes yeah what
 
 
read or anything sometimes yeah what
made you think that I don't know I feel
 
 
made you think that I don't know I feel
 
 
made you think that I don't know I feel
like kind of your voice is like a little
 
 
like kind of your voice is like a little
 
 
like kind of your voice is like a little
deeper and yeah it is what it is yeah
 
 
deeper and yeah it is what it is yeah
 
 
deeper and yeah it is what it is yeah
yeah when did you know I remember being
 
 
yeah when did you know I remember being
 
 
yeah when did you know I remember being
like six or seven and thinking no this
 
 
like six or seven and thinking no this
 
 
like six or seven and thinking no this
isn't right
 
 
isn't right
 
 
isn't right
I tried to be a boy yeah I wasn't very
 
 
I tried to be a boy yeah I wasn't very
 
 
I tried to be a boy yeah I wasn't very
good on it so would you rather be a girl
 
 
good on it so would you rather be a girl
 
 
good on it so would you rather be a girl
or would you rather be important well
 
 
or would you rather be important well
 
 
or would you rather be important well
I'd rather be a girl is it kind of like
 
 
I'd rather be a girl is it kind of like
 
 
I'd rather be a girl is it kind of like
how how people like a boy could like a
 
 
how how people like a boy could like a
 
 
how how people like a boy could like a
girl color do you really think there's
 
 
girl color do you really think there's
 
 
girl color do you really think there's
like boy colors and girl colors no not
 
 
like boy colors and girl colors no not
 
 
like boy colors and girl colors no not
really cuz I mean I kind of like purple
 
 
really cuz I mean I kind of like purple
 
 
really cuz I mean I kind of like purple
I changed my favorite color every years
 
 
I changed my favorite color every years
 
 
I changed my favorite color every years
it's me - I like brain makeup I like
 
 
it's me - I like brain makeup I like
 
 
it's me - I like brain makeup I like
wearing dresses but that's not what
 
 
wearing dresses but that's not what
 
 
wearing dresses but that's not what
makes me a girl it's more about who you
 
 
makes me a girl it's more about who you
 
 
makes me a girl it's more about who you
know you are inside so you you just
 
 
know you are inside so you you just
 
 
know you are inside so you you just
didn't feel like you're meant to be a
 
 
didn't feel like you're meant to be a
 
 
didn't feel like you're meant to be a
boy
 
 
boy
 
 
boy
exactly I couldn't I was holding back
 
 
exactly I couldn't I was holding back
 
 
exactly I couldn't I was holding back
yeah I knew I was trans woman but I
 
 
yeah I knew I was trans woman but I
 
 
yeah I knew I was trans woman but I
didn't want to be at the time I thought
 
 
didn't want to be at the time I thought
 
 
didn't want to be at the time I thought
no this is nobody can know this is this
 
 
no this is nobody can know this is this
 
 
no this is nobody can know this is this
is something I'm ashamed of back then I
 
 
is something I'm ashamed of back then I
 
 
is something I'm ashamed of back then I
thought the army it's pretty masculine
 
 
thought the army it's pretty masculine
 
 
thought the army it's pretty masculine
maybe if I'm a soldier then those
 
 
maybe if I'm a soldier then those
 
 
maybe if I'm a soldier then those
thoughts will go away after coming back
 
 
thoughts will go away after coming back
 
 
thoughts will go away after coming back
from Iraq it really just it came down to
 
 
from Iraq it really just it came down to
 
 
from Iraq it really just it came down to
I can't fake it anymore it's kind of
 
 
I can't fake it anymore it's kind of
 
 
I can't fake it anymore it's kind of
like holding a secret exactly like like
 
 
like holding a secret exactly like like
 
 
like holding a secret exactly like like
if you have a crush on someone you're
 
 
if you have a crush on someone you're
 
 
if you have a crush on someone you're
like I'm not gonna ever tell anyone and
 
 
like I'm not gonna ever tell anyone and
 
 
like I'm not gonna ever tell anyone and
I'm like you tell them and
 
 
 
 
but afterwards it's kind of worth it
 
 
but afterwards it's kind of worth it
 
 
but afterwards it's kind of worth it
because you're not carrying it around
 
 
because you're not carrying it around
 
 
because you're not carrying it around
anymore I had tried to keep it a secret
 
 
anymore I had tried to keep it a secret
 
 
anymore I had tried to keep it a secret
for a really really long time because I
 
 
for a really really long time because I
 
 
for a really really long time because I
was afraid that a lot of my friends
 
 
was afraid that a lot of my friends
 
 
was afraid that a lot of my friends
wouldn't understand
 
 
wouldn't understand
 
 
wouldn't understand
a lot of them didn't does that mean
 
 
a lot of them didn't does that mean
 
 
a lot of them didn't does that mean
you're not friends they weren't very
 
 
you're not friends they weren't very
 
 
you're not friends they weren't very
good friends but afterwards I made new
 
 
good friends but afterwards I made new
 
 
good friends but afterwards I made new
friends friends that no one understood
 
 
friends friends that no one understood
 
 
friends friends that no one understood
exactly you like everyone nervous to
 
 
exactly you like everyone nervous to
 
 
exactly you like everyone nervous to
like go out in public when you're first
 
 
like go out in public when you're first
 
 
like go out in public when you're first
starting out it's one of the scariest
 
 
starting out it's one of the scariest
 
 
starting out it's one of the scariest
things but I think it's pretty important
 
 
things but I think it's pretty important
 
 
things but I think it's pretty important
to be visible what was your name before
 
 
to be visible what was your name before
 
 
to be visible what was your name before
you were Katie um a lot of trans people
 
 
you were Katie um a lot of trans people
 
 
you were Katie um a lot of trans people
aren't very comfortable at talking about
 
 
aren't very comfortable at talking about
 
 
aren't very comfortable at talking about
um what their old names were it's just
 
 
um what their old names were it's just
 
 
um what their old names were it's just
it's something that other people used to
 
 
it's something that other people used to
 
 
it's something that other people used to
call me no it's okay
 
 
call me no it's okay
 
 
call me no it's okay
and I promise it's okay who is the
 
 
and I promise it's okay who is the
 
 
and I promise it's okay who is the
hardest person to tell I had to tell my
 
 
hardest person to tell I had to tell my
 
 
hardest person to tell I had to tell my
commander and at the time I didn't know
 
 
commander and at the time I didn't know
 
 
commander and at the time I didn't know
if that was gonna be the end of my
 
 
if that was gonna be the end of my
 
 
if that was gonna be the end of my
career luckily I was able to to fight to
 
 
career luckily I was able to to fight to
 
 
career luckily I was able to to fight to
stay in there was a couple times when
 
 
stay in there was a couple times when
 
 
stay in there was a couple times when
they tried to find some things that I
 
 
they tried to find some things that I
 
 
they tried to find some things that I
was doing wrong because if they could
 
 
was doing wrong because if they could
 
 
was doing wrong because if they could
find something I was doing wrong then
 
 
find something I was doing wrong then
 
 
find something I was doing wrong then
they could say we don't want you to be
 
 
they could say we don't want you to be
 
 
they could say we don't want you to be
in the army anymore
 
 
in the army anymore
 
 
in the army anymore
that makes sense but they couldn't find
 
 
that makes sense but they couldn't find
 
 
that makes sense but they couldn't find
anything cuz I'm really good at my job
 
 
anything cuz I'm really good at my job
 
 
anything cuz I'm really good at my job
so still a chance that you might get
 
 
so still a chance that you might get
 
 
so still a chance that you might get
kicked out there are people who are
 
 
kicked out there are people who are
 
 
kicked out there are people who are
trying to make it very difficult for me
 
 
trying to make it very difficult for me
 
 
trying to make it very difficult for me
to stay in for example maybe like Donald
 
 
to stay in for example maybe like Donald
 
 
to stay in for example maybe like Donald
Trump so it's not well what do you know
 
 
Trump so it's not well what do you know
 
 
Trump so it's not well what do you know
about that mmm he doesn't really like
 
 
about that mmm he doesn't really like
 
 
about that mmm he doesn't really like
women
 
 
women
 
 
women
why do you think they're gonna change it
 
 
why do you think they're gonna change it
 
 
why do you think they're gonna change it
because there's still a lot of people
 
 
because there's still a lot of people
 
 
because there's still a lot of people
who don't think that that we can do our
 
 
who don't think that that we can do our
 
 
who don't think that that we can do our
jobs
 
 
jobs
 
 
jobs
even if we're doing them every day part
 
 
even if we're doing them every day part
 
 
even if we're doing them every day part
of the whole issue is people disagreeing
 
 
of the whole issue is people disagreeing
 
 
of the whole issue is people disagreeing
about whether transgender medical care
 
 
about whether transgender medical care
 
 
about whether transgender medical care
should be covered because they say I
 
 
should be covered because they say I
 
 
should be covered because they say I
don't want my tax dollars paying for
 
 
don't want my tax dollars paying for
 
 
don't want my tax dollars paying for
that why not that is a very good
 
 
that why not that is a very good
 
 
that why not that is a very good
question I just wanted to ask you if you
 
 
question I just wanted to ask you if you
 
 
question I just wanted to ask you if you
felt like you wanted to be different or
 
 
felt like you wanted to be different or
 
 
felt like you wanted to be different or
would you rather just be like normal
 
 
would you rather just be like normal
 
 
would you rather just be like normal
like born oh girl oh I didn't really
 
 
like born oh girl oh I didn't really
 
 
like born oh girl oh I didn't really
have that choice that's a be hard that's
 
 
have that choice that's a be hard that's
 
 
have that choice that's a be hard that's
a that's a good question if I didn't
 
 
a that's a good question if I didn't
 
 
a that's a good question if I didn't
have to go through all this then yeah I
 
 
have to go through all this then yeah I
 
 
have to go through all this then yeah I
probably would have chosen that but
 
 
probably would have chosen that but
 
 
probably would have chosen that but
that's not what happened I didn't really
 
 
that's not what happened I didn't really
 
 
that's not what happened I didn't really
have a choice in the matter
 
 
have a choice in the matter
 
 
have a choice in the matter
are you happier now as a woman
 
 
are you happier now as a woman
 
 
are you happier now as a woman
definitely I've always been a woman now
 
 
definitely I've always been a woman now
 
 
definitely I've always been a woman now
I don't have to worry about people
 
 
I don't have to worry about people
 
 
I don't have to worry about people
seeing me that's something else it's
 
 
seeing me that's something else it's
 
 
seeing me that's something else it's
three G applies to meet you bye Katie
 
 
three G applies to meet you bye Katie
 
 
three G applies to meet you bye Katie
bye it was great to meet you great to
 
 
bye it was great to meet you great to
 
 
bye it was great to meet you great to
meet you too good luck you two I'm
 
 
meet you too good luck you two I'm
 
 
meet you too good luck you two I'm
Katherine Schmidt thank you for watching
 
 
Katherine Schmidt thank you for watching
 
 
Katherine Schmidt thank you for watching
kids meet if you want to learn more
 
 
kids meet if you want to learn more
 
 
kids meet if you want to learn more
about me and transgender service members
 
 
about me and transgender service members
 
 
about me and transgender service members
check the link below don't forget to
 
 
check the link below don't forget to
 
 
check the link below don't forget to
subscribe to hi ho and watch more kids
 
 
subscribe to hi ho and watch more kids
 
 
subscribe to hi ho and watch more kids
meet videos

 
very often when we talk when

 
very often when we talk when

 
very often when we talk when
questions arise in the live shows

 
questions arise in the live shows

 
questions arise in the live shows
on the street at the few events and those

 
on the street at the few events and those

 
on the street at the few events and those
manage to go before podcasts both

 
manage to go before podcasts both

 
manage to go before podcasts both
questions concerning
 
 
questions concerning
 
 
questions concerning
technological progress so we will really go to Mars we will
 
 
technological progress so we will really go to Mars we will
 
 
technological progress so we will really go to Mars we will
counteract global
 
 
counteract global
 
 
counteract global
warming that also of a social nature
 
 
warming that also of a social nature
 
 
warming that also of a social nature
we said then we will stop dealing
 
 
we said then we will stop dealing
 
 
we said then we will stop dealing
bad the lgbt community there will not be an
 
 
bad the lgbt community there will not be an
 
 
bad the lgbt community there will not be an
improvement in the condition of
 
 
improvement in the condition of
 
 
improvement in the condition of
women in our country in the world we will
 
 
women in our country in the world we will
 
 
women in our country in the world we will
solve racism these things here
 
 
solve racism these things here
 
 
solve racism these things here
and they are obviously huge questions every
 
 
and they are obviously huge questions every
 
 
and they are obviously huge questions every
way one of your ideas what I
 
 
way one of your ideas what I
 
 
way one of your ideas what I
always premise or add at the end and this
 
 
always premise or add at the end and this
 
 
always premise or add at the end and this
sentence
 
 
sentence
 
 
sentence
assuming that things  remain
 
 
assuming that things  remain
 
 
assuming that things  remain
politically stable and orderly because
 
 
politically stable and orderly because
 
 
politically stable and orderly because
in the case of huge problems maybe a
 
 
in the case of huge problems maybe a
 
 
in the case of huge problems maybe a
war the priorities and the picture change
 
 
war the priorities and the picture change
 
 
war the priorities and the picture change
completely if you return to the
 
 
completely if you return to the
 
 
completely if you return to the
war economy you burn coal other than
 
 
war economy you burn coal other than
 
 
war economy you burn coal other than
renewables world supply chains jump
 
 
renewables world supply chains jump
 
 
renewables world supply chains jump
there is no lack of stuff and technological efforts
 
 
there is no lack of stuff and technological efforts
 
 
there is no lack of stuff and technological efforts
or suffer arrests or
 
 
or suffer arrests or
 
 
or suffer arrests or
they focus on other things and quests  or
 
 
they focus on other things and quests  or
 
 
they focus on other things and quests  or
an unspoken in the
 
 
an unspoken in the
 
 
an unspoken in the
narrative of the Ukrainian resistance unspoken also applies to
 
 
narrative of the Ukrainian resistance unspoken also applies to
 
 
narrative of the Ukrainian resistance unspoken also applies to
the rights of those who all notice, however,
 
 
the rights of those who all notice, however,
 
 
the rights of those who all notice, however,
that they are for or against and that
 
 
that they are for or against and that
 
 
that they are for or against and that
the Russian aggression on a
 
 
the Russian aggression on a
 
 
the Russian aggression on a
democratic country has brought back
 
 
democratic country has brought back
 
 
democratic country has brought back
the clock in Ukrainian in terms of the form
 
 
the clock in Ukrainian in terms of the form
 
 
the clock in Ukrainian in terms of the form
of the  society of how we learned to
 
 
of the  society of how we learned to
 
 
of the  society of how we learned to
know it or then it is clear ukraine
 
 
know it or then it is clear ukraine
 
 
know it or then it is clear ukraine
and ukraine is not very advanced in
 
 
and ukraine is not very advanced in
 
 
and ukraine is not very advanced in
terms of social rights already
 
 
terms of social rights already
 
 
terms of social rights already
basic same-sex couples there
 
 
basic same-sex couples there
 
 
basic same-sex couples there
cannot marry for example and
 
 
cannot marry for example and
 
 
cannot marry for example and
the influence of the orthodox church is
 
 
the influence of the orthodox church is
 
 
the influence of the orthodox church is
very  strong
 
 
very  strong
 
 
very  strong
a church that has all its network of
 
 
a church that has all its network of
 
 
a church that has all its network of
como was very well known but I am not referring
 
 
como was very well known but I am not referring
 
 
como was very well known but I am not referring
only to the issues of the lgbt community
 
 
only to the issues of the lgbt community
 
 
only to the issues of the lgbt community
but you will all know that at this point for
 
 
but you will all know that at this point for
 
 
but you will all know that at this point for
the imposition of martial law in
 
 
the imposition of martial law in
 
 
the imposition of martial law in
ukraine it was decided to ban
 
 
ukraine it was decided to ban
 
 
ukraine it was decided to ban
the abandonment of the country  of any
 
 
the abandonment of the country  of any
 
 
the abandonment of the country  of any
Ukrainian man 3 18 to 60 years of age so that
 
 
Ukrainian man 3 18 to 60 years of age so that
 
 
Ukrainian man 3 18 to 60 years of age so that
each of them can contribute to
 
 
each of them can contribute to
 
 
each of them can contribute to
the war effort by fighting ideally but
 
 
the war effort by fighting ideally but
 
 
the war effort by fighting ideally but
also served in logistics
 
 
also served in logistics
 
 
also served in logistics
in the rifo  rnments and maintenance
 
 
in the rifo  rnments and maintenance
 
 
in the rifo  rnments and maintenance
now let's not make fun of the men
 
 
now let's not make fun of the men
 
 
now let's not make fun of the men
stuck inside the women is free to
 
 
stuck inside the women is free to
 
 
stuck inside the women is free to
fight if we want to fight but
 
 
fight if we want to fight but
 
 
fight if we want to fight but
also to go out to go and obviously
 
 
also to go out to go and obviously
 
 
also to go out to go and obviously
the application of a social structure
 
 
the application of a social structure
 
 
the application of a social structure
that we have seen exist for the entire
 
 
that we have seen exist for the entire
 
 
that we have seen exist for the entire
duration by the human race to  obvious
 
 
duration by the human race to  obvious
 
 
duration by the human race to  obvious
biological reasons foresees that the
 
 
biological reasons foresees that the
 
 
biological reasons foresees that the
most expendable minis if we want to
 
 
most expendable minis if we want to
 
 
most expendable minis if we want to
or not go to fight will
 
 
or not go to fight will
 
 
or not go to fight will
immerse themselves in the conflict while women
 
 
immerse themselves in the conflict while women
 
 
immerse themselves in the conflict while women
with more precious evenings for
 
 
with more precious evenings for
 
 
with more precious evenings for
equally biological reasons are entrusted with the
 
 
equally biological reasons are entrusted with the
 
 
equally biological reasons are entrusted with the
role of care to take care of the offspring
 
 
role of care to take care of the offspring
 
 
role of care to take care of the offspring
of the elderly and these are structures
 
 
of the elderly and these are structures
 
 
of the elderly and these are structures
that then  have also become entrenched in a
 
 
that then  have also become entrenched in a
 
 
that then  have also become entrenched in a
society that in the West
 
 
society that in the West
 
 
society that in the West
has changed a lot in the last 100 years because
 
 
has changed a lot in the last 100 years because
 
 
has changed a lot in the last 100 years because
of peace because peace allows you to
 
 
of peace because peace allows you to
 
 
of peace because peace allows you to
identify the intrinsic injustices
 
 
identify the intrinsic injustices
 
 
identify the intrinsic injustices
of that system and try to fix them
 
 
of that system and try to fix them
 
 
of that system and try to fix them
because rights and social justice
 
 
because rights and social justice
 
 
because rights and social justice
and attention  to the individual and all these
 
 
and attention  to the individual and all these
 
 
and attention  to the individual and all these
beautiful wonderful things that
 
 
beautiful wonderful things that
 
 
beautiful wonderful things that
I have been taking care of for a lifetime t  which I spend
 
 
I have been taking care of for a lifetime t  which I spend
 
 
I have been taking care of for a lifetime t  which I spend
not only are not free, indeed they
 
 
not only are not free, indeed they
 
 
not only are not free, indeed they
can exist only in a situation
 
 
can exist only in a situation
 
 
can exist only in a situation
of stability but can also be
 
 
of stability but can also be
 
 
of stability but can also be
lost because the so-called
 
 
lost because the so-called
 
 
lost because the so-called
universal rights are nothing more than
 
 
universal rights are nothing more than
 
 
universal rights are nothing more than
privileges that as advanced societies
 
 
privileges that as advanced societies
 
 
privileges that as advanced societies
we can grant ourselves I know that many of
 
 
we can grant ourselves I know that many of
 
 
we can grant ourselves I know that many of
you will now go crazy  for this sentence
 
 
you will now go crazy  for this sentence
 
 
you will now go crazy  for this sentence
but I believe it more true than ever even the
 
 
but I believe it more true than ever even the
 
 
but I believe it more true than ever even the
right to life is questioned
 
 
right to life is questioned
 
 
right to life is questioned
in a conflict situation because
 
 
in a conflict situation because
 
 
in a conflict situation because
war changes everything I was thinking about
 
 
war changes everything I was thinking about
 
 
war changes everything I was thinking about
today because the guardian interviewed
 
 
today because the guardian interviewed
 
 
today because the guardian interviewed
a series of transgender Ukrainian women
 
 
a series of transgender Ukrainian women
 
 
a series of transgender Ukrainian women
who basically cannot get
 
 
who basically cannot get
 
 
who basically cannot get
out of  country even if they would like because
 
 
out of  country even if they would like because
 
 
out of  country even if they would like because
even if the state certified on their
 
 
even if the state certified on their
 
 
even if the state certified on their
documents the successful transition to
 
 
documents the successful transition to
 
 
documents the successful transition to
the female gender at the border are
 
 
the female gender at the border are
 
 
the female gender at the border are
still arbitrarily subjected to
 
 
still arbitrarily subjected to
 
 
still arbitrarily subjected to
genital searches they check
 
 
genital searches they check
 
 
genital searches they check
their hands for the presence of an Adam
 
 
their hands for the presence of an Adam
 
 
their hands for the presence of an Adam
's apple and any other element that may
 
 
's apple and any other element that may
 
 
's apple and any other element that may
be an indicator of their  path and
 
 
be an indicator of their  path and
 
 
be an indicator of their  path and
in case they don't even start them
 
 
in case they don't even start them
 
 
in case they don't even start them
dealing with it but it seems to you I imagine
 
 
dealing with it but it seems to you I imagine
 
 
dealing with it but it seems to you I imagine
traitorous qualities for having tried to
 
 
traitorous qualities for having tried to
 
 
traitorous qualities for having tried to
leave the country and in this story
 
 
leave the country and in this story
 
 
leave the country and in this story
there is everything there is bringing back
 
 
there is everything there is bringing back
 
 
there is everything there is bringing back
rights and the rule of law in reality
 
 
rights and the rule of law in reality
 
 
rights and the rule of law in reality
there is the law of war which is different from
 
 
there is the law of war which is different from
 
 
there is the law of war which is different from
that of peace  for purely
 
 
that of peace  for purely
 
 
that of peace  for purely
practical reasons and there are gender roles
 
 
practical reasons and there are gender roles
 
 
practical reasons and there are gender roles
as distinct as they used to be
 
 
as distinct as they used to be
 
 
as distinct as they used to be
because this conflict is not only
 
 
because this conflict is not only
 
 
because this conflict is not only
a World War I thing in the
 
 
a World War I thing in the
 
 
a World War I thing in the
sense that the vision it puts in the
 
 
sense that the vision it puts in the
 
 
sense that the vision it puts in the
world and World War I but it is a
 
 
world and World War I but it is a
 
 
world and World War I but it is a
conflict that also obliges  attacked
 
 
conflict that also obliges  attacked
 
 
conflict that also obliges  attacked
to get out of that
 
 
to get out of that
 
 
to get out of that
contemporary track and forces Western countries
 
 
contemporary track and forces Western countries
 
 
contemporary track and forces Western countries
to restart the arms race
 
 
to restart the arms race
 
 
to restart the arms race
 
 
 
 
after eighty years of glasses I was there
 
 
after eighty years of glasses I was there
 
 
after eighty years of glasses I was there
when it was talking about armies and forces
 
 
when it was talking about armies and forces
 
 
when it was talking about armies and forces
the world to stop other
 
 
the world to stop other
 
 
the world to stop other
modernization processes such as the transition to
 
 
modernization processes such as the transition to
 
 
modernization processes such as the transition to
renewables  further sign of the fact
 
 
renewables  further sign of the fact
 
 
renewables  further sign of the fact
that nothing is free, not even rights are taken for granted
 
 
that nothing is free, not even rights are taken for granted
 
 
that nothing is free, not even rights are taken for granted
and 2 it is no longer the world
 
 
and 2 it is no longer the world
 
 
and 2 it is no longer the world
of the early twentieth century, on the contrary it is an
 
 
of the early twentieth century, on the contrary it is an
 
 
of the early twentieth century, on the contrary it is an
increasingly interconnected destiny  to challenges that
 
 
increasingly interconnected destiny  to challenges that
 
 
increasingly interconnected destiny  to challenges that
can only be faced with
 
 
can only be faced with
 
 
can only be faced with
humanity unity to have humanity unity
 
 
humanity unity to have humanity unity
 
 
humanity unity to have humanity unity
there cannot be a conflict of this
 
 
there cannot be a conflict of this
 
 
there cannot be a conflict of this
type
 
 
type
 
 
type
welcome back to breaking italy
 
 
 
 
friday from noon to midnight
 
 
friday from noon to midnight
 
 
friday from noon to midnight
the team will be onlive switch to
 
 
the team will be onlive switch to
 
 
the team will be onlive switch to
raise funds for an
 
 
raise funds for an
 
 
raise funds for an
operational o ng in  ukraine because i want to
 
 
operational o ng in  ukraine because i want to
 
 
operational o ng in  ukraine because i want to
do my part and i am admired by
 
 
do my part and i am admired by
 
 
do my part and i am admired by
so much solidarity from all over the world
 
 
so much solidarity from all over the world
 
 
so much solidarity from all over the world
also from italy so get ready
 
 
also from italy so get ready
 
 
also from italy so get ready
because that's what we have to do together
 
 
because that's what we have to do together
 
 
because that's what we have to do together
and we have to do it well and we are full of
 
 
and we have to do it well and we are full of
 
 
and we have to do it well and we are full of
guests dark beard the economist carlo
 
 
guests dark beard the economist carlo
 
 
guests dark beard the economist carlo
stagnaro luis al giulia  pompili sa baku
 
 
stagnaro luis al giulia  pompili sa baku
 
 
stagnaro luis al giulia  pompili sa baku
we have fart ad and we are still trying
 
 
we have fart ad and we are still trying
 
 
we have fart ad and we are still trying
to convince someone else but you know
 
 
to convince someone else but you know
 
 
to convince someone else but you know
what other service you can use
 
 
what other service you can use
 
 
what other service you can use
net from and on friday this
 
 
net from and on friday this
 
 
net from and on friday this
to donate to charities satis
 
 
to donate to charities satis
 
 
to donate to charities satis
pay present a very nice thing about
 
 
pay present a very nice thing about
 
 
pay present a very nice thing about
satie spay the service that is  been
 
 
satie spay the service that is  been
 
 
satie spay the service that is  been
our partner other times it will be to
 
 
our partner other times it will be to
 
 
our partner other times it will be to
pay outside the traditional banking circuits
 
 
pay outside the traditional banking circuits
 
 
pay outside the traditional banking circuits
you do everything through the app a
 
 
you do everything through the app a
 
 
you do everything through the app a
lot  intuitive and that is not only used to
 
 
lot  intuitive and that is not only used to
 
 
lot  intuitive and that is not only used to
pay in shops or give money to
 
 
pay in shops or give money to
 
 
pay in shops or give money to
friends but offers a whole series of
 
 
friends but offers a whole series of
 
 
friends but offers a whole series of
functions to pay bills, such
 
 
functions to pay bills, such
 
 
functions to pay bills, such
as car and motorcycle tax,
 
 
as car and motorcycle tax,
 
 
as car and motorcycle tax,
telephone top-ups and among these things
 
 
telephone top-ups and among these things
 
 
telephone top-ups and among these things
there are also donations to
 
 
there are also donations to
 
 
there are also donations to
charities that  in general they change every tot
 
 
charities that  in general they change every tot
 
 
charities that  in general they change every tot
of they propose to them for example at this
 
 
of they propose to them for example at this
 
 
of they propose to them for example at this
moment it is possible to donate to save the
 
 
moment it is possible to donate to save the
 
 
moment it is possible to donate to save the
children Ukraine while the register
 
 
children Ukraine while the register
 
 
children Ukraine while the register
has already collected over 700 thousand euros
 
 
has already collected over 700 thousand euros
 
 
has already collected over 700 thousand euros
thanks to the generosity of
 
 
thanks to the generosity of
 
 
thanks to the generosity of
many of you obviously too so I'm not
 
 
many of you obviously too so I'm not
 
 
many of you obviously too so I'm not
only here to tell you that they have been turned off  a
 
 
only here to tell you that they have been turned off  a
 
 
only here to tell you that they have been turned off  a
good service which is also growing that
 
 
good service which is also growing that
 
 
good service which is also growing that
you can safely use both
 
 
you can safely use both
 
 
you can safely use both
for small daily expenses to
 
 
for small daily expenses to
 
 
for small daily expenses to
do the supermarket shopping and also to
 
 
do the supermarket shopping and also to
 
 
do the supermarket shopping and also to
keep it aside for a moment of
 
 
keep it aside for a moment of
 
 
keep it aside for a moment of
emergency in which the place in a shop
 
 
emergency in which the place in a shop
 
 
emergency in which the place in a shop
does not work if some
 
 
does not work if some
 
 
does not work if some
reason still does not feel at yours
 
 
reason still does not feel at yours
 
 
reason still does not feel at yours
comfortable in using it daily but
 
 
comfortable in using it daily but
 
 
comfortable in using it daily but
in short it has a lot of features
 
 
in short it has a lot of features
 
 
in short it has a lot of features
beyond this that you can
 
 
beyond this that you can
 
 
beyond this that you can
only discover  trying the app another example
 
 
only discover  trying the app another example
 
 
only discover  trying the app another example
is to act as a binder for your
 
 
is to act as a binder for your
 
 
is to act as a binder for your
cards then that of the tax code
 
 
cards then that of the tax code
 
 
cards then that of the tax code
the cards of the ferrari shops you can
 
 
the cards of the ferrari shops you can
 
 
the cards of the ferrari shops you can
create piggy banks and just donate
 
 
create piggy banks and just donate
 
 
create piggy banks and just donate
for charitable causes even at this
 
 
for charitable causes even at this
 
 
for charitable causes even at this
moment you can do it so as usual
 
 
moment you can do it so as usual
 
 
moment you can do it so as usual
here is my proposal try the  'app without
 
 
here is my proposal try the  'app without
 
 
here is my proposal try the  'app without
putting a euro on it indeed with the
 
 
putting a euro on it indeed with the
 
 
putting a euro on it indeed with the
breaking Italy code you receive 5 euro that
 
 
breaking Italy code you receive 5 euro that
 
 
breaking Italy code you receive 5 euro that
you can more use to try to make
 
 
you can more use to try to make
 
 
you can more use to try to make
a payment but trivially you can also
 
 
a payment but trivially you can also
 
 
a payment but trivially you can also
give it to save the children a bit as you
 
 
give it to save the children a bit as you
 
 
give it to save the children a bit as you
prefer then I should like you can
 
 
prefer then I should like you can
 
 
prefer then I should like you can
use it if you do not like the
 
 
use it if you do not like the
 
 
use it if you do not like the
canceled and  time zero from the phone and
 
 
canceled and  time zero from the phone and
 
 
canceled and  time zero from the phone and
please let me
 
 
please let me
 
 
please let me
know about your experience linking
 
 
know about your experience linking
 
 
know about your experience linking
description we deviate for a moment from
 
 
description we deviate for a moment from
 
 
description we deviate for a moment from
the thematic thread of these days that is
 
 
the thematic thread of these days that is
 
 
the thematic thread of these days that is
the ukraine that we take in the queue anyway
 
 
the ukraine that we take in the queue anyway
 
 
the ukraine that we take in the queue anyway
do not worry about
 
 
do not worry about
 
 
do not worry about
some very heated events
 
 
some very heated events
 
 
some very heated events
that are  taking place in these weeks
 
 
that are  taking place in these weeks
 
 
that are  taking place in these weeks
in Corsica, an island which is also known here
 
 
in Corsica, an island which is also known here
 
 
in Corsica, an island which is also known here
as Sardinia  that he did not
 
 
as Sardinia  that he did not
 
 
as Sardinia  that he did not
make
 
 
make
 
 
make
it I do not know how to pronounce in French
 
 
it I do not know how to pronounce in French
 
 
it I do not know how to pronounce in French
events that in addition to having a certain
 
 
events that in addition to having a certain
 
 
events that in addition to having a certain
importance for the island have also
 
 
importance for the island have also
 
 
importance for the island have also
left importance for France and
 
 
left importance for France and
 
 
left importance for France and
will surely have developments
 
 
will surely have developments
 
 
will surely have developments
then and last Monday the news
 
 
then and last Monday the news
 
 
then and last Monday the news
of the death of the sixty-one year old Ivan
 
 
of the death of the sixty-one year old Ivan
 
 
of the death of the sixty-one year old Ivan
Colonna o  Ivan Col Corsican took place in
 
 
Colonna o  Ivan Col Corsican took place in
 
 
Colonna o  Ivan Col Corsican took place in
a hospital in Marseille on the
 
 
a hospital in Marseille on the
 
 
a hospital in Marseille on the
southern French coast now who is this
 
 
southern French coast now who is this
 
 
southern French coast now who is this
column is an important character for
 
 
column is an important character for
 
 
column is an important character for
the Corsican independence groups, to say a
 
 
the Corsican independence groups, to say a
 
 
the Corsican independence groups, to say a
bit considered a hero and this is because he
 
 
bit considered a hero and this is because he
 
 
bit considered a hero and this is because he
was a very important activist and
 
 
was a very important activist and
 
 
was a very important activist and
independence activist until he was
 
 
independence activist until he was
 
 
independence activist until he was
condemned along with others  for
 
 
condemned along with others  for
 
 
condemned along with others  for
the murder in 98 of claude erignac at the
 
 
the murder in 98 of claude erignac at the
 
 
the murder in 98 of claude erignac at the
time due to the effect of corsica now after
 
 
time due to the effect of corsica now after
 
 
time due to the effect of corsica now after
the death of erignac with a he had been
 
 
the death of erignac with a he had been
 
 
the death of erignac with a he had been
sought for five years during
 
 
sought for five years during
 
 
sought for five years during
which he had lived in the green of the island
 
 
which he had lived in the green of the island
 
 
which he had lived in the green of the island
which being similar to sardinia offers
 
 
which being similar to sardinia offers
 
 
which being similar to sardinia offers
substantially the same protections
 
 
substantially the same protections
 
 
substantially the same protections
let's say environmental that
 
 
let's say environmental that
 
 
let's say environmental that
banditry here is not made possible by us
 
 
banditry here is not made possible by us
 
 
banditry here is not made possible by us
environment that  moreover, the column knew
 
 
environment that  moreover, the column knew
 
 
environment that  moreover, the column knew
very well because he was a pastor it was
 
 
very well because he was a pastor it was
 
 
very well because he was a pastor it was
the profession he still held
 
 
the profession he still held
 
 
the profession he still held
before having committed the murder after
 
 
before having committed the murder after
 
 
before having committed the murder after
five years, however, the independentist
 
 
five years, however, the independentist
 
 
five years, however, the independentist
had been found sentenced to
 
 
had been found sentenced to
 
 
had been found sentenced to
life imprisonment and placed under a
 
 
life imprisonment and placed under a
 
 
life imprisonment and placed under a
special regime called psychiatric or detained with
 
 
special regime called psychiatric or detained with
 
 
special regime called psychiatric or detained with
special monitoring  precisely because
 
 
special monitoring  precisely because
 
 
special monitoring  precisely because
of its danger it is for this
 
 
of its danger it is for this
 
 
of its danger it is for this
reason assigned to prisons not in
 
 
reason assigned to prisons not in
 
 
reason assigned to prisons not in
corsica in its territory but
 
 
corsica in its territory but
 
 
corsica in its territory but
located in the south of france
 
 
located in the south of france
 
 
located in the south of france
perfect we arrive at these days
 
 
perfect we arrive at these days
 
 
perfect we arrive at these days
so on March 2 according to the reports
 
 
so on March 2 according to the reports
 
 
so on March 2 according to the reports
of the authorities of the detention center in
 
 
of the authorities of the detention center in
 
 
of the authorities of the detention center in
question and the column was
 
 
question and the column was
 
 
question and the column was
violently attacked  in harlow prison
 
 
violently attacked  in harlow prison
 
 
violently attacked  in harlow prison
near marseille precisely by the hand of
 
 
near marseille precisely by the hand of
 
 
near marseille precisely by the hand of
another prisoner the Cameroonian frank
 
 
another prisoner the Cameroonian frank
 
 
another prisoner the Cameroonian frank
extends well that apparently he was
 
 
extends well that apparently he was
 
 
extends well that apparently he was
in prison for affiliation with
 
 
in prison for affiliation with
 
 
in prison for affiliation with
Islamic fundamentalists in reality he
 
 
Islamic fundamentalists in reality he
 
 
Islamic fundamentalists in reality he
is still in prison
 
 
is still in prison
 
 
is still in prison
we know that column would
 
 
we know that column would
 
 
we know that column would
have offended him in some way he would have offended
 
 
have offended him in some way he would have offended
 
 
have offended him in some way he would have offended
his faith is the latter well he would
 
 
his faith is the latter well he would
 
 
his faith is the latter well he would
aggr  published in an area of the prison dedicated to ph
 
 
aggr  published in an area of the prison dedicated to ph
 
 
aggr  published in an area of the prison dedicated to ph
sical exercise by stran
 
 
sical exercise by stran
 
 
sical exercise by stran
ling him with a plastic bag and b
 
 
ling him with a plastic bag and b
 
 
ling him with a plastic bag and b
ating him for 8 minutes, thus causi
 
 
ating him for 8 minutes, thus causi
 
 
ating him for 8 minutes, thus causi
g his brain death, that is, banal
 
 
g his brain death, that is, banal
 
 
g his brain death, that is, banal
y sending him into a coma.
 
 
y sending him into a coma.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
prison is contested by the
 
 
prison is contested by the
 
 
prison is contested by the
separatists substantially because it
 
 
separatists substantially because it
 
 
separatists substantially because it
would be impossible, according to them,
 
 
would be impossible, according to them,
 
 
would be impossible, according to them,
that the prison authorities themselves
 
 
that the prison authorities themselves
 
 
that the prison authorities themselves
did not realize what was
 
 
did not realize what was
 
 
did not realize what was
happening for so long because 8
 
 
happening for so long because 8
 
 
happening for so long because 8
minutes is a long time thus igniting
 
 
minutes is a long time thus igniting
 
 
minutes is a long time thus igniting
the hypothesis always supported by the
 
 
the hypothesis always supported by the
 
 
the hypothesis always supported by the
separatists that it
 
 
separatists that it
 
 
separatists that it
involuntarily did not intervene  in
 
 
involuntarily did not intervene  in
 
 
involuntarily did not intervene  in
fact, making himself accomplices of a murder
 
 
fact, making himself accomplices of a murder
 
 
fact, making himself accomplices of a murder
after 20 days as a column
 
 
after 20 days as a column
 
 
after 20 days as a column
died last Monday just
 
 
died last Monday just
 
 
died last Monday just
before his death, however, since
 
 
before his death, however, since
 
 
 
 
the attack of hospitalization, the fact has ignited
 
 
the attack of hospitalization, the fact has ignited
 
 
the attack of hospitalization, the fact has ignited
Corsican nationalist movements that have
 
 
Corsican nationalist movements that have
 
 
Corsican nationalist movements that have
also become quite belligerent  In fact, quite a few
 
 
also become quite belligerent  In fact, quite a few
 
 
also become quite belligerent  In fact, quite a few
hundreds of demonstrators have in fact
 
 
hundreds of demonstrators have in fact
 
 
hundreds of demonstrators have in fact
come to clashes with the
 
 
come to clashes with the
 
 
come to clashes with the
police in the main cities of the
 
 
police in the main cities of the
 
 
police in the main cities of the
island so al ice bald eva
 
 
island so al ice bald eva
 
 
island so al ice bald eva
is even breaking into
 
 
is even breaking into
 
 
is even breaking into
the courthouse, setting fire to piles
 
 
the courthouse, setting fire to piles
 
 
the courthouse, setting fire to piles
of documents and images that have
 
 
of documents and images that have
 
 
of documents and images that have
circulated less  than they would have
 
 
circulated less  than they would have
 
 
circulated less  than they would have
been if there weren't the war in
 
 
been if there weren't the war in
 
 
been if there weren't the war in
ukraine per diem however very
 
 
ukraine per diem however very
 
 
ukraine per diem however very
impressive they portray
 
 
impressive they portray
 
 
impressive they portray
the separatists throwing
 
 
the separatists throwing
 
 
the separatists throwing
Molotov cocktails sometimes setting fire to
 
 
Molotov cocktails sometimes setting fire to
 
 
Molotov cocktails sometimes setting fire to
buildings
 
 
buildings
 
 
buildings
we know that in the city of bastia alone
 
 
we know that in the city of bastia alone
 
 
we know that in the city of bastia alone
there were at least a hundred
 
 
there were at least a hundred
 
 
there were at least a hundred
wounded, of which about 80 were among the members
 
 
wounded, of which about 80 were among the members
 
 
wounded, of which about 80 were among the members
In short,
 
 
In short,
 
 
In short,
the murder of cona was taken
 
 
the murder of cona was taken
 
 
the murder of cona was taken
seriously enough
 
 
seriously enough
 
 
seriously enough
by the separatists at least as much as the
 
 
by the separatists at least as much as the
 
 
by the separatists at least as much as the
French government took
 
 
French government took
 
 
French government took
revolt seriously as reported by the
 
 
revolt seriously as reported by the
 
 
revolt seriously as reported by the
akos newspaper but in fact held last week
 
 
akos newspaper but in fact held last week
 
 
akos newspaper but in fact held last week
by the French minister of the
 
 
by the French minister of the
 
 
by the French minister of the
interior he spoke  of a consistent
 
 
interior he spoke  of a consistent
 
 
interior he spoke  of a consistent
possibility of making the island autonomous
 
 
possibility of making the island autonomous
 
 
possibility of making the island autonomous
or granting it  however, a greater
 
 
or granting it  however, a greater
 
 
or granting it  however, a greater
level of autonomy for the cut is not
 
 
level of autonomy for the cut is not
 
 
level of autonomy for the cut is not
very clear as long as the
 
 
very clear as long as the
 
 
very clear as long as the
activists contained their
 
 
activists contained their
 
 
activists contained their
aggression and prepared themselves for a
 
 
aggression and prepared themselves for a
 
 
aggression and prepared themselves for a
dialogue where, however, attention with
 
 
dialogue where, however, attention with
 
 
dialogue where, however, attention with
autonomy we do not mean independence and
 
 
autonomy we do not mean independence and
 
 
autonomy we do not mean independence and
Corsica would still remain under the
 
 
Corsica would still remain under the
 
 
Corsica would still remain under the
Parisian government but we are talking about a more
 
 
Parisian government but we are talking about a more
 
 
Parisian government but we are talking about a more
wide range of maneuver in some
 
 
wide range of maneuver in some
 
 
wide range of maneuver in some
legislative powers thought of taxation
 
 
legislative powers thought of taxation
 
 
legislative powers thought of taxation
local development of the economy and also the whole
 
 
local development of the economy and also the whole
 
 
local development of the economy and also the whole
rather critical question
 
 
rather critical question
 
 
rather critical question
of the holiday homes present on the island
 
 
of the holiday homes present on the island
 
 
of the holiday homes present on the island
not owned by Corsicans in question
 
 
not owned by Corsicans in question
 
 
not owned by Corsicans in question
that has always infuriated
 
 
that has always infuriated
 
 
that has always infuriated
the separatists because they would consider the
 
 
the separatists because they would consider the
 
 
the separatists because they would consider the
territory a mere  French colony that
 
 
territory a mere  French colony that
 
 
territory a mere  French colony that
exists only for holiday periods but
 
 
exists only for holiday periods but
 
 
exists only for holiday periods but
above the link between tourism and
 
 
above the link between tourism and
 
 
above the link between tourism and
exploitation that actually exists
 
 
exploitation that actually exists
 
 
exploitation that actually exists
also in the arguments of the
 
 
also in the arguments of the
 
 
also in the arguments of the
Sardinian separatists
 
 
Sardinian separatists
 
 
Sardinian separatists
because the formation of dharma is so
 
 
because the formation of dharma is so
 
 
because the formation of dharma is so
important because it is a bit of an
 
 
important because it is a bit of an
 
 
important because it is a bit of an
unprecedented statement I will
 
 
unprecedented statement I will
 
 
unprecedented statement I will
explain Corsica and French  d  at the end of
 
 
explain Corsica and French  d  at the end of
 
 
explain Corsica and French  d  at the end of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the control of various powers such as
 
 
the control of various powers such as
 
 
the control of various powers such as
Sardinia from the Pisans to the
 
 
Sardinia from the Pisans to the
 
 
Sardinia from the Pisans to the
Genoese Aragonese and maintained a strong
 
 
Genoese Aragonese and maintained a strong
 
 
Genoese Aragonese and maintained a strong
desire for independence which then
 
 
desire for independence which then
 
 
desire for independence which then
resulted in armed separatism in the
 
 
resulted in armed separatism in the
 
 
resulted in armed separatism in the
specific
 
 
specific
 
 
 
 
of the main components
 
 
of the main components
 
 
of the main components
keep in mind that this struggle
 
 
keep in mind that this struggle
 
 
keep in mind that this struggle
for independent ism lasted for almost
 
 
for independent ism lasted for almost
 
 
for independent ism lasted for almost
forty years from 76 to 2014, the year in which
 
 
forty years from 76 to 2014, the year in which
 
 
forty years from 76 to 2014, the year in which
instead the abandonment
 
 
instead the abandonment
 
 
instead the abandonment
of arms was announced and from that moment the
 
 
of arms was announced and from that moment the
 
 
of arms was announced and from that moment the
Corsican nationalists have sought instead
 
 
Corsican nationalists have sought instead
 
 
Corsican nationalists have sought instead
of direct confrontation  way of
 
 
of direct confrontation  way of
 
 
of direct confrontation  way of
obtaining greater autonomy from the
 
 
obtaining greater autonomy from the
 
 
obtaining greater autonomy from the
French state by also being rewarded
 
 
French state by also being rewarded
 
 
French state by also being rewarded
by electoral successes
 
 
by electoral successes
 
 
by electoral successes
if we want the president of the
 
 
if we want the president of the
 
 
if we want the president of the
regional council and for example jeans the lions former
 
 
regional council and for example jeans the lions former
 
 
regional council and for example jeans the lions former
lawyer of the independentist column
 
 
lawyer of the independentist column
 
 
lawyer of the independentist column
as you can deduce pro autonomy and
 
 
as you can deduce pro autonomy and
 
 
as you can deduce pro autonomy and
according to a survey published
 
 
according to a survey published
 
 
according to a survey published
on cosma ten on 53  percent of the courses
 
 
on cosma ten on 53  percent of the courses
 
 
on cosma ten on 53  percent of the courses
would be in favor of obtaining
 
 
would be in favor of obtaining
 
 
would be in favor of obtaining
one  greater autonomy for the island at the
 
 
one  greater autonomy for the island at the
 
 
one  greater autonomy for the island at the
moment, however, it is not yet clear whether
 
 
moment, however, it is not yet clear whether
 
 
moment, however, it is not yet clear whether
the independence movements will choose
 
 
the independence movements will choose
 
 
the independence movements will choose
the path of diplomacy by taking advantage of
 
 
the path of diplomacy by taking advantage of
 
 
the path of diplomacy by taking advantage of
this historical gash of dialogue with
 
 
this historical gash of dialogue with
 
 
this historical gash of dialogue with
Paris or if the death of the column
 
 
Paris or if the death of the column
 
 
Paris or if the death of the column
will further increase the protests with
 
 
will further increase the protests with
 
 
will further increase the protests with
employees of these
 
 
employees of these
 
 
employees of these
things are done for various
 
 
things are done for various
 
 
things are done for various
reasons but one thing quite certain is
 
 
reasons but one thing quite certain is
 
 
reasons but one thing quite certain is
that the question comes at a
 
 
that the question comes at a
 
 
that the question comes at a
delicate moment for the French government which
 
 
delicate moment for the French government which
 
 
delicate moment for the French government which
to open its presidential elections
 
 
to open its presidential elections
 
 
to open its presidential elections
while Macron spoke of an opening
 
 
while Macron spoke of an opening
 
 
while Macron spoke of an opening
towards a dialogue
 
 
towards a dialogue
 
 
towards a dialogue
regarding its opponents
 
 
regarding its opponents
 
 
regarding its opponents
precisely those oriented  on the right they
 
 
precisely those oriented  on the right they
 
 
precisely those oriented  on the right they
are against it because it
 
 
are against it because it
 
 
are against it because it
would somehow lead to a
 
 
would somehow lead to a
 
 
would somehow lead to a
renunciation of part of the French identity
 
 
renunciation of part of the French identity
 
 
renunciation of part of the French identity
and therefore accuse macron of letting
 
 
and therefore accuse macron of letting
 
 
and therefore accuse macron of letting
violence something like this win
 
 
violence something like this win
 
 
violence something like this win
now I know that great opinions are expected
 
 
now I know that great opinions are expected
 
 
now I know that great opinions are expected
from someone born and raised in
 
 
from someone born and raised in
 
 
from someone born and raised in
a region  with a strong
 
 
a region  with a strong
 
 
a region  with a strong
independence desire for the other
 
 
independence desire for the other
 
 
independence desire for the other
similar to the strong Corsican one  and moreover,
 
 
similar to the strong Corsican one  and moreover,
 
 
similar to the strong Corsican one  and moreover,
until a few years ago it is something that
 
 
until a few years ago it is something that
 
 
until a few years ago it is something that
has gone a bit lost to tell the truth it
 
 
has gone a bit lost to tell the truth it
 
 
has gone a bit lost to tell the truth it
is also a region with a special status
 
 
is also a region with a special status
 
 
is also a region with a special status
that has a series of autonomy
 
 
that has a series of autonomy
 
 
that has a series of autonomy
let's put it this way but I have a bit of
 
 
let's put it this way but I have a bit of
 
 
let's put it this way but I have a bit of
the idea that it is not the shape of the
 
 
the idea that it is not the shape of the
 
 
the idea that it is not the shape of the
systems of government and self-government which
 
 
systems of government and self-government which
 
 
systems of government and self-government which
then determines the fate of a
 
 
then determines the fate of a
 
 
then determines the fate of a
territory so it always pulled me a little
 
 
territory so it always pulled me a little
 
 
territory so it always pulled me a little
away from the evergreen, very Italian
 
 
away from the evergreen, very Italian
 
 
away from the evergreen, very Italian
discourse of centralism against
 
 
discourse of centralism against
 
 
discourse of centralism against
federalism but we actually know the value
 
 
federalism but we actually know the value
 
 
federalism but we actually know the value
of those who exercise those powers of
 
 
of those who exercise those powers of
 
 
of those who exercise those powers of
government at the local level who make the
 
 
government at the local level who make the
 
 
government at the local level who make the
the difference is Sardinia with everything that
 
 
the difference is Sardinia with everything that
 
 
the difference is Sardinia with everything that
enjoys some autonomy that other
 
 
enjoys some autonomy that other
 
 
enjoys some autonomy that other
reasons have not always suffered from
 
 
reasons have not always suffered from
 
 
reasons have not always suffered from
a not particularly
 
 
a not particularly
 
 
a not particularly
bright far-sighted political class and is put as it is,
 
 
bright far-sighted political class and is put as it is,
 
 
bright far-sighted political class and is put as it is,
however, in short, we run this
 
 
however, in short, we run this
 
 
however, in short, we run this
they want the French agree
 
 
they want the French agree
 
 
they want the French agree
maybe they invite you to burn the  things do not
 
 
maybe they invite you to burn the  things do not
 
 
maybe they invite you to burn the  things do not
try to get these results
 
 
try to get these results
 
 
try to get these results
good for them as a Sardinian a bit an
 
 
good for them as a Sardinian a bit an
 
 
good for them as a Sardinian a bit an
automatic sympathy for my cousins
 
 
automatic sympathy for my cousins
 
 
automatic sympathy for my cousins
well-known even if corsica is anywa
 
 
well-known even if corsica is anywa
 
 
well-known even if corsica is anywa
a sardinia that did not make it did not
 
 
a sardinia that did not make it did not
 
 
a sardinia that did not make it did not
make it
 
 
make it
 
 
make it
gelson but the french
 
 
gelson but the french
 
 
gelson but the french
boh
 
 
 
 
usa finished in tones but the
 
 
usa finished in tones but the
 
 
usa finished in tones but the
ukrainian russia updates and back to monday
 
 
ukrainian russia updates and back to monday
 
 
ukrainian russia updates and back to monday
when almost a month after the
 
 
when almost a month after the
 
 
when almost a month after the
russian stock exchange was closed following the
 
 
russian stock exchange was closed following the
 
 
russian stock exchange was closed following the
arrival of  first sanctions you
 
 
arrival of  first sanctions you
 
 
arrival of  first sanctions you
find yourself and the fear that the market with
 
 
find yourself and the fear that the market with
 
 
find yourself and the fear that the market with
the sasse the bargaining is recovering
 
 
the sasse the bargaining is recovering
 
 
the sasse the bargaining is recovering
for the first time but less
 
 
for the first time but less
 
 
for the first time but less
partially let's say only for
 
 
partially let's say only for
 
 
partially let's say only for
internal bonds those in Russian
 
 
internal bonds those in Russian
 
 
internal bonds those in Russian
 
 
 
 
rubles know that if we want it is a powerful
 
 
rubles know that if we want it is a powerful
 
 
rubles know that if we want it is a powerful
wait so let's reopen but the
 
 
wait so let's reopen but the
 
 
wait so let's reopen but the
less possible in fact excluding the
 
 
less possible in fact excluding the
 
 
less possible in fact excluding the
most important exchanges that could
 
 
most important exchanges that could
 
 
most important exchanges that could
generate a further flight of capital
 
 
generate a further flight of capital
 
 
generate a further flight of capital
which despite the next two
 
 
which despite the next two
 
 
which despite the next two
weeks there should be a
 
 
weeks there should be a
 
 
weeks there should be a
progressive reopening that brings the
 
 
progressive reopening that brings the
 
 
progressive reopening that brings the
situation back if it does not have normality because
 
 
situation back if it does not have normality because
 
 
situation back if it does not have normality because
the word normality at this time
 
 
the word normality at this time
 
 
the word normality at this time
would be a pop gift  at least to a
 
 
would be a pop gift  at least to a
 
 
would be a pop gift  at least to a
partial restoration of the functionality
 
 
partial restoration of the functionality
 
 
partial restoration of the functionality
of the Russian stock exchange and if this seems
 
 
of the Russian stock exchange and if this seems
 
 
of the Russian stock exchange and if this seems
strange to you and why the situation  and despite
 
 
strange to you and why the situation  and despite
 
 
strange to you and why the situation  and despite
everything it is stabilizing a bit days
 
 
everything it is stabilizing a bit days
 
 
everything it is stabilizing a bit days
ago for example we were talking about the
 
 
ago for example we were talking about the
 
 
ago for example we were talking about the
possibility that the Russian
 
 
possibility that the Russian
 
 
possibility that the Russian
economy would default in the event that the
 
 
economy would default in the event that the
 
 
economy would default in the event that the
government was unable to pay the
 
 
government was unable to pay the
 
 
government was unable to pay the
first of numerous foreign currency debts
 
 
first of numerous foreign currency debts
 
 
first of numerous foreign currency debts
it has accumulated and
 
 
it has accumulated and
 
 
it has accumulated and
problems if I had  decided to do
 
 
problems if I had  decided to do
 
 
problems if I had  decided to do
this operation in rubles eventuality
 
 
this operation in rubles eventuality
 
 
this operation in rubles eventuality
which however did not occur not
 
 
which however did not occur not
 
 
which however did not occur not
only did russia in fact pay its
 
 
only did russia in fact pay its
 
 
only did russia in fact pay its
debt like a good lannister does but it
 
 
debt like a good lannister does but it
 
 
debt like a good lannister does but it
paid on time without waiting for that
 
 
paid on time without waiting for that
 
 
paid on time without waiting for that
famous thirty-day grace period
 
 
famous thirty-day grace period
 
 
famous thirty-day grace period
that we had said existed as
 
 
that we had said existed as
 
 
that we had said existed as
bearing and did it in dollars 117
 
 
bearing and did it in dollars 117
 
 
bearing and did it in dollars 117
million dollars specifically
 
 
million dollars specifically
 
 
million dollars specifically
showing substantially two things
 
 
showing substantially two things
 
 
showing substantially two things
before that despite the sanctions it
 
 
before that despite the sanctions it
 
 
before that despite the sanctions it
still has access to a certain amount
 
 
still has access to a certain amount
 
 
still has access to a certain amount
of foreign currency is second that it was
 
 
of foreign currency is second that it was
 
 
of foreign currency is second that it was
evidently managed to keep
 
 
evidently managed to keep
 
 
evidently managed to keep
this secret now simplifying a
 
 
this secret now simplifying a
 
 
this secret now simplifying a
lot before accepting  this
 
 
lot before accepting  this
 
 
lot before accepting  this
payment were however consulted
 
 
payment were however consulted
 
 
payment were however consulted
by the US authorities and the fa  tto
 
 
by the US authorities and the fa  tto
 
 
by the US authorities and the fa  tto
that the operation was allowed to
 
 
that the operation was allowed to
 
 
that the operation was allowed to
go forward would show according to some
 
 
go forward would show according to some
 
 
go forward would show according to some
that pushing Russia to default
 
 
that pushing Russia to default
 
 
that pushing Russia to default
was obviously not an option on the
 
 
was obviously not an option on the
 
 
was obviously not an option on the
plate more or less for now also
 
 
plate more or less for now also
 
 
plate more or less for now also
because let's not forget these 117
 
 
because let's not forget these 117
 
 
because let's not forget these 117
million are just the beginning
 
 
million are just the beginning
 
 
million are just the beginning
and on the horizon  many
 
 
and on the horizon  many
 
 
and on the horizon  many
other new maturities are appearing some of which
 
 
other new maturities are appearing some of which
 
 
other new maturities are appearing some of which
are in the billions not
 
 
are in the billions not
 
 
are in the billions not
millions maturities that as we said
 
 
millions maturities that as we said
 
 
millions maturities that as we said
will arrive very soon including this
 
 
will arrive very soon including this
 
 
will arrive very soon including this
billion hit that expiring to
 
 
billion hit that expiring to
 
 
billion hit that expiring to
open a lot of money and obviously we
 
 
open a lot of money and obviously we
 
 
open a lot of money and obviously we
do not know if russia will be back in
 
 
do not know if russia will be back in
 
 
do not know if russia will be back in
able to pay even if obviously the more
 
 
able to pay even if obviously the more
 
 
able to pay even if obviously the more
the sanctions go on, the more
 
 
the sanctions go on, the more
 
 
the sanctions go on, the more
this will probably be complicated,
 
 
this will probably be complicated,
 
 
this will probably be complicated,
even the ruble seems to start to fluctuate
 
 
even the ruble seems to start to fluctuate
 
 
even the ruble seems to start to fluctuate
less in its value and if at the beginning of the month it
 
 
less in its value and if at the beginning of the month it
 
 
less in its value and if at the beginning of the month it
had touched peaks of 150 ruby per dolla
 
 
had touched peaks of 150 ruby per dolla
 
 
had touched peaks of 150 ruby per dolla
while the conflict opens it wa
 
 
while the conflict opens it wa
 
 
while the conflict opens it wa
between 75 and 80  aver
 
 
between 75 and 80  aver
 
 
between 75 and 80  aver
now for almost a week it
 
 
now for almost a week it
 
 
now for almost a week it
seemed to have settled on an average
 
 
seemed to have settled on an average
 
 
seemed to have settled on an average
that is around now  100 105 which is
 
 
that is around now  100 105 which is
 
 
that is around now  100 105 which is
still rather little is that he
 
 
still rather little is that he
 
 
still rather little is that he
has lost a good part of their
 
 
has lost a good part of their
 
 
has lost a good part of their
purchasing power but at least it seemed to have
 
 
purchasing power but at least it seemed to have
 
 
purchasing power but at least it seemed to have
reached its stability not only and
 
 
reached its stability not only and
 
 
reached its stability not only and
today's news that putin has decided
 
 
today's news that putin has decided
 
 
today's news that putin has decided
on payments for the next
 
 
on payments for the next
 
 
on payments for the next
gas supplies of nations  enemies
 
 
gas supplies of nations  enemies
 
 
gas supplies of nations  enemies
you remember the list of enemy countries
 
 
you remember the list of enemy countries
 
 
you remember the list of enemy countries
to accept only rubles so no more
 
 
to accept only rubles so no more
 
 
to accept only rubles so no more
euros no more dollars wants to be paid
 
 
euros no more dollars wants to be paid
 
 
euros no more dollars wants to be paid
in rubles and although this would be a
 
 
in rubles and although this would be a
 
 
in rubles and although this would be a
way of circumventing the sanctions and therefore
 
 
way of circumventing the sanctions and therefore
 
 
way of circumventing the sanctions and therefore
it will be necessary to see how a
 
 
it will be necessary to see how a
 
 
it will be necessary to see how a
company like eni could pay him gas
 
 
company like eni could pay him gas
 
 
company like eni could pay him gas
rubles I do not believe this has led to
 
 
rubles I do not believe this has led to
 
 
rubles I do not believe this has led to
an immediate rise in the US currency on the
 
 
an immediate rise in the US currency on the
 
 
an immediate rise in the US currency on the
markets on the stability here, however, there are
 
 
markets on the stability here, however, there are
 
 
markets on the stability here, however, there are
obviously few certainties.
 
 
obviously few certainties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a
 
 
a
 
 
a
stalemate in which russia
 
 
stalemate in which russia
 
 
stalemate in which russia
devoid of resources with low
 
 
devoid of resources with low
 
 
devoid of resources with low
morale soldiers find the facts
 
 
morale soldiers find the facts
 
 
morale soldiers find the facts
impossible  to advance
 
 
impossible  to advance
 
 
impossible  to advance
further on this too, however, from the
 
 
further on this too, however, from the
 
 
further on this too, however, from the
lead because understanding how much of
 
 
lead because understanding how much of
 
 
lead because understanding how much of
this lack of resources is truth and
 
 
this lack of resources is truth and
 
 
this lack of resources is truth and
how much Ukrainian narration is
 
 
how much Ukrainian narration is
 
 
how much Ukrainian narration is
used as a propaganda weapon
 
 
used as a propaganda weapon
 
 
used as a propaganda weapon
let's say that it is not very simple is a bit
 
 
let's say that it is not very simple is a bit
 
 
let's say that it is not very simple is a bit
complicated
 
 
complicated
 
 
complicated
in general however it is quite
 
 
in general however it is quite
 
 
in general however it is quite
evident that the sanctions  that we have
 
 
evident that the sanctions  that we have
 
 
evident that the sanctions  that we have
said are the most severe ever applied to
 
 
said are the most severe ever applied to
 
 
said are the most severe ever applied to
any state they are still playing
 
 
any state they are still playing
 
 
any state they are still playing
a fundamental role in the game and
 
 
a fundamental role in the game and
 
 
a fundamental role in the game and
net of the videos of people
 
 
net of the videos of people
 
 
net of the videos of people
competing for the supermarket sugar packs
 
 
competing for the supermarket sugar packs
 
 
competing for the supermarket sugar packs
that maybe are also a little
 
 
that maybe are also a little
 
 
that maybe are also a little
effect of the hysteria that tends to strike
 
 
effect of the hysteria that tends to strike
 
 
effect of the hysteria that tends to strike
also we Italians putin himself
 
 
also we Italians putin himself
 
 
also we Italians putin himself
last week had to put in place as it
 
 
last week had to put in place as it
 
 
last week had to put in place as it
would have been necessary to institute
 
 
would have been necessary to institute
 
 
would have been necessary to institute
profound changes to the economy by
 
 
profound changes to the economy by
 
 
profound changes to the economy by
warning the population that these
 
 
warning the population that these
 
 
warning the population that these
changes obviously the fault of the West it
 
 
changes obviously the fault of the West it
 
 
changes obviously the fault of the West it
is clear they would not have been easy and
 
 
is clear they would not have been easy and
 
 
is clear they would not have been easy and
promising increases in pensions and
 
 
promising increases in pensions and
 
 
promising increases in pensions and
social benefits which, however, obviously
 
 
social benefits which, however, obviously
 
 
social benefits which, however, obviously
I am very easy to promise but it is
 
 
I am very easy to promise but it is
 
 
I am very easy to promise but it is
pull of things that are very difficult to
 
 
pull of things that are very difficult to
 
 
pull of things that are very difficult to
maintain because they have a cost all
 
 
maintain because they have a cost all
 
 
maintain because they have a cost all
this however we have seen other
 
 
this however we have seen other
 
 
this however we have seen other
times regimes able to
 
 
times regimes able to
 
 
times regimes able to
survive the sanctions indeed famous
 
 
survive the sanctions indeed famous
 
 
survive the sanctions indeed famous
the regime changes triggered by sanctions
 
 
the regime changes triggered by sanctions
 
 
the regime changes triggered by sanctions
are more a fantasy than it is a
 
 
are more a fantasy than it is a
 
 
are more a fantasy than it is a
historical fact to say it all well excellent the
 
 
historical fact to say it all well excellent the
 
 
historical fact to say it all well excellent the
sanctions  more sanctions but important in
 
 
sanctions  more sanctions but important in
 
 
sanctions  more sanctions but important in
an illusion that these can have an
 
 
an illusion that these can have an
 
 
an illusion that these can have an
effect from one day to the next especially
 
 
effect from one day to the next especially
 
 
effect from one day to the next especially
because to give more and more evident that to the
 
 
because to give more and more evident that to the
 
 
because to give more and more evident that to the
Kremlin if not looking for all possible ways
 
 
Kremlin if not looking for all possible ways
 
 
Kremlin if not looking for all possible ways
to make sure that this
 
 
 
 
we wait to see with the pharmacy was
 
 
we wait to see with the pharmacy was
 
 
we wait to see with the pharmacy was
all from  I run away thanks for
 
 
all from  I run away thanks for
 
 
all from  I run away thanks for
watching take a look at statistics
 
 
watching take a look at statistics
 
 
watching take a look at statistics
and a good service take a look at
 
 
and a good service take a look at
 
 
and a good service take a look at
your calendar and mark yourself on Friday
 
 
your calendar and mark yourself on Friday
 
 
your calendar and mark yourself on Friday
because on Friday from 12 to 24
 
 
because on Friday from 12 to 24
 
 
because on Friday from 12 to 24
I will be live so you take the live
 
 
I will be live so you take the live
 
 
I will be live so you take the live
you put it in the background every 10 minutes
 
 
you put it in the background every 10 minutes
 
 
you put it in the background every 10 minutes
donate a thousand euros to that  point is at that
 
 
donate a thousand euros to that  point is at that
 
 
donate a thousand euros to that  point is at that
point we transfer all of Ukraine here
 
 
point we transfer all of Ukraine here
 
 
point we transfer all of Ukraine here
for
 
 
for
 
 
for
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then there is the yacht that  I have to buy myself
 
 
then there is the yacht that  I have to buy myself
 
 
then there is the yacht that  I have to buy myself
because obviously in the sense ok to
 
 
because obviously in the sense ok to
 
 
because obviously in the sense ok to
donations but
 
 
donations but
 
 
donations but
I also want to do it big arcade league
 
 
I also want to do it big arcade league
 
 
I also want to do it big arcade league
then

 
it took four minutes and 33 seconds for

 
it took four minutes and 33 seconds for

 
it took four minutes and 33 seconds for
leah thomas to swim her way into ncaa

 
leah thomas to swim her way into ncaa

 
leah thomas to swim her way into ncaa
history with her victory in the women's

 
history with her victory in the women's

 
history with her victory in the women's
 

 
 

 
 
the first openly transgender d1 athlete
 
 
the first openly transgender d1 athlete
 
 
the first openly transgender d1 athlete
to become an ncaa national champion
 
 
to become an ncaa national champion
 
 
to become an ncaa national champion
after spending three years on the men's
 
 
after spending three years on the men's
 
 
after spending three years on the men's
team the university of pennsylvania
 
 
team the university of pennsylvania
 
 
team the university of pennsylvania
swimmer surpassed the ncaa requirement
 
 
swimmer surpassed the ncaa requirement
 
 
swimmer surpassed the ncaa requirement
to compete on the women's team 12 months
 
 
to compete on the women's team 12 months
 
 
to compete on the women's team 12 months
of hormone replacement therapy still her
 
 
of hormone replacement therapy still her
 
 
of hormone replacement therapy still her
standout season has ushered in a wave of
 
 
standout season has ushered in a wave of
 
 
standout season has ushered in a wave of
scrutiny splitting her teammates some
 
 
scrutiny splitting her teammates some
 
 
scrutiny splitting her teammates some
writing public letters of support and
 
 
writing public letters of support and
 
 
writing public letters of support and
others anonymously speaking out against
 
 
others anonymously speaking out against
 
 
others anonymously speaking out against
thomas with at least one complaining she
 
 
thomas with at least one complaining she
 
 
thomas with at least one complaining she
has an unfair physical advantage
 
 
 
 
that division extended to thursday's
 
 
that division extended to thursday's
 
 
that division extended to thursday's
meet outside atlanta's macaulay aquatic
 
 
meet outside atlanta's macaulay aquatic
 
 
meet outside atlanta's macaulay aquatic
center a small group of supporters
 
 
center a small group of supporters
 
 
center a small group of supporters
facing off against a handful of
 
 
facing off against a handful of
 
 
facing off against a handful of
protesters leah thomas should not be
 
 
protesters leah thomas should not be
 
 
protesters leah thomas should not be
swimming in women's swimming period dead
 
 
swimming in women's swimming period dead
 
 
swimming in women's swimming period dead
stop it's an issue that has reached
 
 
stop it's an issue that has reached
 
 
stop it's an issue that has reached
beyond the pool to politics within the
 
 
beyond the pool to politics within the
 
 
beyond the pool to politics within the
last two years 11 republican-led state
 
 
last two years 11 republican-led state
 
 
last two years 11 republican-led state
legislatures have passed bills
 
 
legislatures have passed bills
 
 
legislatures have passed bills
preventing transgender kids in k-12
 
 
preventing transgender kids in k-12
 
 
preventing transgender kids in k-12
schools from competing on teams that
 
 
schools from competing on teams that
 
 
schools from competing on teams that
match their gender identity other states
 
 
match their gender identity other states
 
 
match their gender identity other states
are considering similar legislation
 
 
are considering similar legislation
 
 
are considering similar legislation
including georgia where thomas made
 
 
including georgia where thomas made
 
 
including georgia where thomas made
history and tonight will compete to do
 
 
history and tonight will compete to do
 
 
history and tonight will compete to do
it again
 
 
 
 
now craig she's got two events left the
 
 
now craig she's got two events left the
 
 
now craig she's got two events left the
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is today she's going to hit the pool for
 
 
is today she's going to hit the pool for
 
 
is today she's going to hit the pool for
the first preliminary this morning craig
 
 
the first preliminary this morning craig
 
 
the first preliminary this morning craig
wayne alexander forced there in atlanta
 
 
wayne alexander forced there in atlanta
 
 
wayne alexander forced there in atlanta
blaine thank you
 
 
 
 
hey thanks for watching our youtube
 
 
hey thanks for watching our youtube
 
 
hey thanks for watching our youtube
channel find your favorite recipes
 
 
channel find your favorite recipes
 
 
channel find your favorite recipes
celebrity interviews uplifting stories
 
 
celebrity interviews uplifting stories
 
 
celebrity interviews uplifting stories
shop our favorite deals and so much more
 
 
shop our favorite deals and so much more
 
 
shop our favorite deals and so much more
with the today app download it now

 
hi could you put me to the ladies room

 
hi could you put me to the ladies room

 
hi could you put me to the ladies room
yeah sure it's just right over there

 
yeah sure it's just right over there

 
yeah sure it's just right over there
thanks so much sorry I just overheard

 
thanks so much sorry I just overheard

 
thanks so much sorry I just overheard
are you looking for the women's bathroom

 
are you looking for the women's bathroom

 
are you looking for the women's bathroom
yes I found it Thanks
 
 
yes I found it Thanks
 
 
yes I found it Thanks
oh no I I know you might feel like
 
 
oh no I I know you might feel like
 
 
oh no I I know you might feel like
you're a woman but you're obviously a
 
 
you're a woman but you're obviously a
 
 
you're a woman but you're obviously a
man you can't go in there it's happening
 
 
man you can't go in there it's happening
 
 
man you can't go in there it's happening
across the country lawmakers deciding
 
 
across the country lawmakers deciding
 
 
across the country lawmakers deciding
whether transgender Americans should be
 
 
whether transgender Americans should be
 
 
whether transgender Americans should be
allowed to use the restrooms designated
 
 
allowed to use the restrooms designated
 
 
allowed to use the restrooms designated
for the gender they identify with if the
 
 
for the gender they identify with if the
 
 
for the gender they identify with if the
Justice is choosing not to take up a
 
 
Justice is choosing not to take up a
 
 
Justice is choosing not to take up a
challenge to a pennsylvania school
 
 
challenge to a pennsylvania school
 
 
challenge to a pennsylvania school
districts policy on transgender students
 
 
districts policy on transgender students
 
 
districts policy on transgender students
and if it's discrimination when they're
 
 
and if it's discrimination when they're
 
 
and if it's discrimination when they're
forced to do otherwise
 
 
forced to do otherwise
 
 
forced to do otherwise
today in this restaurant this mother has
 
 
today in this restaurant this mother has
 
 
today in this restaurant this mother has
her mind clearly made up I had a young
 
 
her mind clearly made up I had a young
 
 
her mind clearly made up I had a young
lady here it's not right for you to be
 
 
lady here it's not right for you to be
 
 
lady here it's not right for you to be
in there while she is men should use the
 
 
in there while she is men should use the
 
 
in there while she is men should use the
men's bathroom if you witness someone
 
 
men's bathroom if you witness someone
 
 
men's bathroom if you witness someone
demanding that a trans woman used the
 
 
demanding that a trans woman used the
 
 
demanding that a trans woman used the
men's bathroom but I am a woman but you
 
 
men's bathroom but I am a woman but you
 
 
men's bathroom but I am a woman but you
could think what you want but we all
 
 
could think what you want but we all
 
 
could think what you want but we all
know you're a man what would you do
 
 
know you're a man what would you do
 
 
know you're a man what would you do
joining us on the set today is jazz
 
 
joining us on the set today is jazz
 
 
joining us on the set today is jazz
Jennings in 2007 jazz at the age of six
 
 
Jennings in 2007 jazz at the age of six
 
 
Jennings in 2007 jazz at the age of six
sat down for a groundbreaking interview
 
 
sat down for a groundbreaking interview
 
 
sat down for a groundbreaking interview
with her own barbara walters on 20/20
 
 
with her own barbara walters on 20/20
 
 
with her own barbara walters on 20/20
tell me about this picture
 
 
tell me about this picture
 
 
tell me about this picture
why is Delta Pokal crying she wants to
 
 
why is Delta Pokal crying she wants to
 
 
why is Delta Pokal crying she wants to
wear the dress to school it's a little
 
 
wear the dress to school it's a little
 
 
wear the dress to school it's a little
girl you since then
 
 
girl you since then
 
 
girl you since then
jazz has worked to accelerate acceptance
 
 
jazz has worked to accelerate acceptance
 
 
jazz has worked to accelerate acceptance
for the transgender community even
 
 
for the transgender community even
 
 
for the transgender community even
starring in her own show on TLC I am
 
 
starring in her own show on TLC I am
 
 
starring in her own show on TLC I am
jazz
 
 
jazz
 
 
jazz
where she brings her personal issues
 
 
where she brings her personal issues
 
 
where she brings her personal issues
into the national spotlight I wasn't
 
 
into the national spotlight I wasn't
 
 
into the national spotlight I wasn't
allowed to use the girls bathroom about
 
 
allowed to use the girls bathroom about
 
 
allowed to use the girls bathroom about
my elementary school I had to use the
 
 
my elementary school I had to use the
 
 
my elementary school I had to use the
nurses room
 
 
nurses room
 
 
nurses room
costing kids were vomiting everything
 
 
costing kids were vomiting everything
 
 
costing kids were vomiting everything
we're at the Randolph diner in Randolph
 
 
we're at the Randolph diner in Randolph
 
 
we're at the Randolph diner in Randolph
New Jersey where Nadia our transgender
 
 
New Jersey where Nadia our transgender
 
 
New Jersey where Nadia our transgender
actress has a very simple question sorry
 
 
actress has a very simple question sorry
 
 
actress has a very simple question sorry
ladies room the ladies room the ladies
 
 
ladies room the ladies room the ladies
 
 
ladies room the ladies room the ladies
room is just right over there okay thank
 
 
room is just right over there okay thank
 
 
room is just right over there okay thank
you so much but our mom at a nearby
 
 
you so much but our mom at a nearby
 
 
you so much but our mom at a nearby
table wait I'm sorry you asked for the
 
 
table wait I'm sorry you asked for the
 
 
table wait I'm sorry you asked for the
women's bathroom sees this as a problem
 
 
women's bathroom sees this as a problem
 
 
women's bathroom sees this as a problem
yeah yeah now is that a joke or
 
 
yeah yeah now is that a joke or
 
 
yeah yeah now is that a joke or
something
 
 
something
 
 
something
excuse me well you think you're a woman
 
 
excuse me well you think you're a woman
 
 
excuse me well you think you're a woman
right you're really a man you should be
 
 
right you're really a man you should be
 
 
right you're really a man you should be
using a men's bathroom this is crazy my
 
 
using a men's bathroom this is crazy my
 
 
using a men's bathroom this is crazy my
stomach is like not so you know I'm just
 
 
stomach is like not so you know I'm just
 
 
stomach is like not so you know I'm just
getting started this group is tuned in I
 
 
getting started this group is tuned in I
 
 
getting started this group is tuned in I
mean if you guys want to go in first
 
 
mean if you guys want to go in first
 
 
mean if you guys want to go in first
no that's not the point I know anybody
 
 
no that's not the point I know anybody
 
 
no that's not the point I know anybody
who would be comfortable with that does
 
 
who would be comfortable with that does
 
 
who would be comfortable with that does
that seem realistic yes men should go in
 
 
that seem realistic yes men should go in
 
 
that seem realistic yes men should go in
the men's bathroom I mean he defends
 
 
the men's bathroom I mean he defends
 
 
the men's bathroom I mean he defends
Nadia I'm sorry what did you say while
 
 
Nadia I'm sorry what did you say while
 
 
Nadia I'm sorry what did you say while
his friend makes her way out of the
 
 
his friend makes her way out of the
 
 
his friend makes her way out of the
booth she's wrong with her she walks
 
 
booth she's wrong with her she walks
 
 
booth she's wrong with her she walks
with her all the way to the ladies room
 
 
with her all the way to the ladies room
 
 
with her all the way to the ladies room
thank you and when she returns excuse me
 
 
thank you and when she returns excuse me
 
 
thank you and when she returns excuse me
why did you do that I don't feel
 
 
why did you do that I don't feel
 
 
why did you do that I don't feel
comfortable her using women's back right
 
 
comfortable her using women's back right
 
 
comfortable her using women's back right
I'm a fisherman I
 
 
 
 
she feels comfortable using bathroom
 
 
she feels comfortable using bathroom
 
 
she feels comfortable using bathroom
light she's not hurt everyone I think
 
 
light she's not hurt everyone I think
 
 
light she's not hurt everyone I think
that's interesting because most people
 
 
that's interesting because most people
 
 
that's interesting because most people
use Christianity against it against and
 
 
use Christianity against it against and
 
 
use Christianity against it against and
she's saying no Christian Christianity
 
 
she's saying no Christian Christianity
 
 
she's saying no Christian Christianity
says you have to love everyone what
 
 
says you have to love everyone what
 
 
says you have to love everyone what
she's transgender that's fine they have
 
 
she's transgender that's fine they have
 
 
she's transgender that's fine they have
to go to the bathroom too so it's just a
 
 
to go to the bathroom too so it's just a
 
 
to go to the bathroom too so it's just a
matter of safety it's just not right I
 
 
matter of safety it's just not right I
 
 
matter of safety it's just not right I
disagree it's just a bathroom
 
 
disagree it's just a bathroom
 
 
disagree it's just a bathroom
well what message is this to my daughter
 
 
well what message is this to my daughter
 
 
well what message is this to my daughter
everybody pees I knew I liked the green
 
 
everybody pees I knew I liked the green
 
 
everybody pees I knew I liked the green
haired girl that's really
 
 
 
 
with that we go we decide to introduce
 
 
with that we go we decide to introduce
 
 
with that we go we decide to introduce
ourselves hi guys
 
 
ourselves hi guys
 
 
ourselves hi guys
how are you it's what would you do you
 
 
how are you it's what would you do you
 
 
how are you it's what would you do you
got involved
 
 
got involved
 
 
got involved
tell us why cuz we just rolled was
 
 
tell us why cuz we just rolled was
 
 
tell us why cuz we just rolled was
discriminatory and I felt like it was
 
 
discriminatory and I felt like it was
 
 
discriminatory and I felt like it was
even regardless of that it was hurting
 
 
even regardless of that it was hurting
 
 
even regardless of that it was hurting
someone's feelings you were very kind
 
 
someone's feelings you were very kind
 
 
someone's feelings you were very kind
and gentle you didn't condemn her
 
 
and gentle you didn't condemn her
 
 
and gentle you didn't condemn her
because everyone even as everyone needs
 
 
because everyone even as everyone needs
 
 
because everyone even as everyone needs
to be accepted in some way what makes
 
 
to be accepted in some way what makes
 
 
to be accepted in some way what makes
you this way well I mean I'm a Christian
 
 
you this way well I mean I'm a Christian
 
 
you this way well I mean I'm a Christian
I just try to love people as much as I
 
 
I just try to love people as much as I
 
 
I just try to love people as much as I
can you know jazz Jennings I do well
 
 
can you know jazz Jennings I do well
 
 
can you know jazz Jennings I do well
guess what so as you may know I'm
 
 
guess what so as you may know I'm
 
 
guess what so as you may know I'm
transgender myself so seeing you stick
 
 
transgender myself so seeing you stick
 
 
transgender myself so seeing you stick
up for this woman over here was just
 
 
up for this woman over here was just
 
 
up for this woman over here was just
incredible to me and what you said
 
 
incredible to me and what you said
 
 
incredible to me and what you said
specifically that you just need to love
 
 
specifically that you just need to love
 
 
specifically that you just need to love
everyone and that's what that religion
 
 
everyone and that's what that religion
 
 
everyone and that's what that religion
is all about I really really appreciated
 
 
is all about I really really appreciated
 
 
is all about I really really appreciated
that and I appreciate all of you so nice
 
 
that and I appreciate all of you so nice
 
 
that and I appreciate all of you so nice
to meet you all as our mom continues to
 
 
to meet you all as our mom continues to
 
 
to meet you all as our mom continues to
voice her opinion you're a man you
 
 
voice her opinion you're a man you
 
 
voice her opinion you're a man you
should be using the men's room not the
 
 
should be using the men's room not the
 
 
should be using the men's room not the
ladies room and more customers share
 
 
ladies room and more customers share
 
 
ladies room and more customers share
their own feelings this man
 
 
their own feelings this man
 
 
their own feelings this man
supports Nadia but he's got a different
 
 
supports Nadia but he's got a different
 
 
supports Nadia but he's got a different
idea of what might be best it's really
 
 
idea of what might be best it's really
 
 
idea of what might be best it's really
better you know
 
 
better you know
 
 
better you know
and this woman I don't think it's safe
 
 
and this woman I don't think it's safe
 
 
and this woman I don't think it's safe
and I don't think it's right throws her
 
 
and I don't think it's right throws her
 
 
and I don't think it's right throws her
hands up in disagreement now this man
 
 
hands up in disagreement now this man
 
 
hands up in disagreement now this man
seems to notice what's going on it's
 
 
seems to notice what's going on it's
 
 
seems to notice what's going on it's
obvious you're not a woman and I
 
 
obvious you're not a woman and I
 
 
obvious you're not a woman and I
wouldn't want my daughter in the
 
 
wouldn't want my daughter in the
 
 
wouldn't want my daughter in the
bathroom Vicki I'm sorry as our daughter
 
 
bathroom Vicki I'm sorry as our daughter
 
 
bathroom Vicki I'm sorry as our daughter
asks her mom to use that bathroom just a
 
 
asks her mom to use that bathroom just a
 
 
asks her mom to use that bathroom just a
minute just a minute we wonder what he's
 
 
minute just a minute we wonder what he's
 
 
minute just a minute we wonder what he's
thinking let's see if she needs to go
 
 
thinking let's see if she needs to go
 
 
thinking let's see if she needs to go
I'm sorry I'm not gonna send her in
 
 
I'm sorry I'm not gonna send her in
 
 
I'm sorry I'm not gonna send her in
there if there's a chance you're going
 
 
there if there's a chance you're going
 
 
there if there's a chance you're going
in there okay I'm just gonna go to the
 
 
in there okay I'm just gonna go to the
 
 
in there okay I'm just gonna go to the
bathroom first
 
 
bathroom first
 
 
bathroom first
and then I leave as soon as Nadia leaves
 
 
and then I leave as soon as Nadia leaves
 
 
and then I leave as soon as Nadia leaves
he opens up thank Obama he's a little
 
 
he opens up thank Obama he's a little
 
 
he opens up thank Obama he's a little
made possible what do you mean they
 
 
made possible what do you mean they
 
 
made possible what do you mean they
could use it if they can do that yeah do
 
 
could use it if they can do that yeah do
 
 
could use it if they can do that yeah do
you agree with that I don't you don't
 
 
you agree with that I don't you don't
 
 
you agree with that I don't you don't
have time to find out more we're delving
 
 
have time to find out more we're delving
 
 
have time to find out more we're delving
into a real serious issue you know
 
 
into a real serious issue you know
 
 
into a real serious issue you know
that's very controversial I I don't
 
 
that's very controversial I I don't
 
 
that's very controversial I I don't
think it's correct
 
 
think it's correct
 
 
think it's correct
I think Obama was over that created that
 
 
I think Obama was over that created that
 
 
I think Obama was over that created that
problem we mentioned that I think if
 
 
problem we mentioned that I think if
 
 
problem we mentioned that I think if
you're a woman you're a woman you should
 
 
you're a woman you're a woman you should
 
 
you're a woman you're a woman you should
do some women's restroom but you were
 
 
do some women's restroom but you were
 
 
do some women's restroom but you were
gonna confront no no no sure that we
 
 
gonna confront no no no sure that we
 
 
gonna confront no no no sure that we
wait to do what she wants but I mean the
 
 
wait to do what she wants but I mean the
 
 
wait to do what she wants but I mean the
law I think allows them to use the
 
 
law I think allows them to use the
 
 
law I think allows them to use the
women's restroom I feel uncomfortable
 
 
women's restroom I feel uncomfortable
 
 
women's restroom I feel uncomfortable
you know especially since our
 
 
you know especially since our
 
 
you know especially since our
granddaughters body posture we're back
 
 
granddaughters body posture we're back
 
 
granddaughters body posture we're back
at it with jazz Jennings whose activism
 
 
at it with jazz Jennings whose activism
 
 
at it with jazz Jennings whose activism
in the trans community started when she
 
 
in the trans community started when she
 
 
in the trans community started when she
was very young so remember this your
 
 
was very young so remember this your
 
 
was very young so remember this your
interview with Barbara are you a boy or
 
 
interview with Barbara are you a boy or
 
 
interview with Barbara are you a boy or
a girl I am definitely a girl our hidden
 
 
a girl I am definitely a girl our hidden
 
 
a girl I am definitely a girl our hidden
cameras are still rolling at the diner
 
 
cameras are still rolling at the diner
 
 
cameras are still rolling at the diner
where we've been capturing reaction
 
 
where we've been capturing reaction
 
 
where we've been capturing reaction
she's very on both sides do you agree
 
 
she's very on both sides do you agree
 
 
she's very on both sides do you agree
with that I don't of the transgender
 
 
with that I don't of the transgender
 
 
with that I don't of the transgender
bathroom debate you're taking this group
 
 
bathroom debate you're taking this group
 
 
bathroom debate you're taking this group
of people and saying you're not allowed
 
 
of people and saying you're not allowed
 
 
of people and saying you're not allowed
to do something that other people are
 
 
to do something that other people are
 
 
to do something that other people are
allowed to do just because they identify
 
 
allowed to do just because they identify
 
 
allowed to do just because they identify
a different way now jazz is about to
 
 
a different way now jazz is about to
 
 
a different way now jazz is about to
join our actresses in the scene getting
 
 
join our actresses in the scene getting
 
 
join our actresses in the scene getting
miked up right now about to go into the
 
 
miked up right now about to go into the
 
 
miked up right now about to go into the
scene myself she's playing Nadia's
 
 
scene myself she's playing Nadia's
 
 
scene myself she's playing Nadia's
friend I mean you're obviously a man why
 
 
friend I mean you're obviously a man why
 
 
friend I mean you're obviously a man why
would you be going to the women's
 
 
would you be going to the women's
 
 
would you be going to the women's
bathroom our mom's question quickly
 
 
bathroom our mom's question quickly
 
 
bathroom our mom's question quickly
captures these women's attention jazz
 
 
captures these women's attention jazz
 
 
captures these women's attention jazz
say she's a woman she's not a man she's
 
 
say she's a woman she's not a man she's
 
 
say she's a woman she's not a man she's
a woman yeah I just need to use the
 
 
a woman yeah I just need to use the
 
 
a woman yeah I just need to use the
bathroom if you want to go in first and
 
 
bathroom if you want to go in first and
 
 
bathroom if you want to go in first and
go ahead of me that's fine like I don't
 
 
go ahead of me that's fine like I don't
 
 
go ahead of me that's fine like I don't
even know if I want my daughter in there
 
 
even know if I want my daughter in there
 
 
even know if I want my daughter in there
she doesn't agree with Diana's approach
 
 
 
 
but she does seem to agree with her
 
 
but she does seem to agree with her
 
 
but she does seem to agree with her
views I
 
 
 
 
I'm just not comfortable with I'm not
 
 
I'm just not comfortable with I'm not
 
 
I'm just not comfortable with I'm not
comfortable with him good but as our mom
 
 
comfortable with him good but as our mom
 
 
comfortable with him good but as our mom
continues her campaign you keep calling
 
 
continues her campaign you keep calling
 
 
continues her campaign you keep calling
him a shoe look at him she gets more and
 
 
him a shoe look at him she gets more and
 
 
him a shoe look at him she gets more and
more steadfast in her approach she is a
 
 
more steadfast in her approach she is a
 
 
more steadfast in her approach she is a
woman I'm gonna take my daughter than
 
 
woman I'm gonna take my daughter than
 
 
woman I'm gonna take my daughter than
later when our mom and daughter leave
 
 
 
 
Nadia thanks them for their support hey
 
 
Nadia thanks them for their support hey
 
 
Nadia thanks them for their support hey
thank you guys so much I mean I know you
 
 
thank you guys so much I mean I know you
 
 
thank you guys so much I mean I know you
don't have to agree I really appreciate
 
 
don't have to agree I really appreciate
 
 
don't have to agree I really appreciate
and just as we're about to tell them our
 
 
and just as we're about to tell them our
 
 
and just as we're about to tell them our
little secret oh yeah we better come out
 
 
little secret oh yeah we better come out
 
 
little secret oh yeah we better come out
well I was gonna say I am jazz yes she's
 
 
well I was gonna say I am jazz yes she's
 
 
well I was gonna say I am jazz yes she's
really helped me for my transition
 
 
 
 
beautiful well we've been busted
 
 
beautiful well we've been busted
 
 
beautiful well we've been busted
it's what would you do and this is jazz
 
 
it's what would you do and this is jazz
 
 
it's what would you do and this is jazz
Jennings tell us why you spoke up I can
 
 
Jennings tell us why you spoke up I can
 
 
Jennings tell us why you spoke up I can
tell you I'm a minority so I know how it
 
 
tell you I'm a minority so I know how it
 
 
tell you I'm a minority so I know how it
is to Chatham and you're not coming I'm
 
 
is to Chatham and you're not coming I'm
 
 
is to Chatham and you're not coming I'm
the only african-american a black woman
 
 
the only african-american a black woman
 
 
the only african-american a black woman
in a restaurant and they looking at me
 
 
in a restaurant and they looking at me
 
 
in a restaurant and they looking at me
like I was from up in here still
 
 
like I was from up in here still
 
 
like I was from up in here still
something you know so you can relate
 
 
something you know so you can relate
 
 
something you know so you can relate
shouldn't make a difference I don't
 
 
shouldn't make a difference I don't
 
 
shouldn't make a difference I don't
think I should make a difference I've
 
 
think I should make a difference I've
 
 
think I should make a difference I've
really done you know cuz I'm a Christian
 
 
really done you know cuz I'm a Christian
 
 
really done you know cuz I'm a Christian
and I know what I believe but I would
 
 
and I know what I believe but I would
 
 
and I know what I believe but I would
never hurt anybody's feelings because I
 
 
never hurt anybody's feelings because I
 
 
never hurt anybody's feelings because I
thought that was very rude the world is
 
 
thought that was very rude the world is
 
 
thought that was very rude the world is
changing and I think we have to accept
 
 
changing and I think we have to accept
 
 
changing and I think we have to accept
it thank you so much as we roll one last
 
 
it thank you so much as we roll one last
 
 
it thank you so much as we roll one last
time jazz is back behind the scenes I'm
 
 
time jazz is back behind the scenes I'm
 
 
time jazz is back behind the scenes I'm
sorry I overheard you asking for the
 
 
sorry I overheard you asking for the
 
 
sorry I overheard you asking for the
women's bathroom yeah I found that
 
 
women's bathroom yeah I found that
 
 
women's bathroom yeah I found that
things and this group is settling in for
 
 
things and this group is settling in for
 
 
things and this group is settling in for
lunch I mean shouldn't you be in the
 
 
lunch I mean shouldn't you be in the
 
 
lunch I mean shouldn't you be in the
men's bathroom not the women's bathroom
 
 
men's bathroom not the women's bathroom
 
 
men's bathroom not the women's bathroom
no I'm a woman that makes no sense why
 
 
no I'm a woman that makes no sense why
 
 
no I'm a woman that makes no sense why
you would go to a woman's bathroom it's
 
 
you would go to a woman's bathroom it's
 
 
you would go to a woman's bathroom it's
disgusting
 
 
 
 
at first he seems to take issue with her
 
 
at first he seems to take issue with her
 
 
at first he seems to take issue with her
tactic what do you mean my daughter here
 
 
tactic what do you mean my daughter here
 
 
tactic what do you mean my daughter here
son take her to the bathroom real quick
 
 
son take her to the bathroom real quick
 
 
son take her to the bathroom real quick
Jimmy and they could be seen about it
 
 
Jimmy and they could be seen about it
 
 
Jimmy and they could be seen about it
why are you
 
 
why are you
 
 
why are you
I think what he's doing isn't right how
 
 
I think what he's doing isn't right how
 
 
I think what he's doing isn't right how
is anything wrong why don't you go to
 
 
is anything wrong why don't you go to
 
 
is anything wrong why don't you go to
the women's bathroom because I don't now
 
 
the women's bathroom because I don't now
 
 
the women's bathroom because I don't now
he attacks the accuracy of her
 
 
he attacks the accuracy of her
 
 
he attacks the accuracy of her
allegations all right he is not why are
 
 
allegations all right he is not why are
 
 
allegations all right he is not why are
you young people defending all of this
 
 
you young people defending all of this
 
 
you young people defending all of this
do you agree with him well I don't know
 
 
do you agree with him well I don't know
 
 
do you agree with him well I don't know
honey it's not affecting me well you're
 
 
honey it's not affecting me well you're
 
 
honey it's not affecting me well you're
not a woman I am and I might darling you
 
 
not a woman I am and I might darling you
 
 
not a woman I am and I might darling you
don't know I am you're just assuming I
 
 
don't know I am you're just assuming I
 
 
don't know I am you're just assuming I
am you don't know what time to say hello
 
 
am you don't know what time to say hello
 
 
am you don't know what time to say hello
we want to see what you guys would do
 
 
we want to see what you guys would do
 
 
we want to see what you guys would do
you jumped in right away yes yes I did
 
 
you jumped in right away yes yes I did
 
 
you jumped in right away yes yes I did
why because especially in a public place
 
 
why because especially in a public place
 
 
why because especially in a public place
like that it just wasn't right there's a
 
 
like that it just wasn't right there's a
 
 
like that it just wasn't right there's a
woman named jazz Jennings who their own
 
 
woman named jazz Jennings who their own
 
 
woman named jazz Jennings who their own
TV show she's our expert today she was
 
 
TV show she's our expert today she was
 
 
TV show she's our expert today she was
really impressed would you say hello
 
 
really impressed would you say hello
 
 
really impressed would you say hello
nice to meet you all three you just see
 
 
nice to meet you all three you just see
 
 
nice to meet you all three you just see
you guys stick up for this woman over
 
 
you guys stick up for this woman over
 
 
you guys stick up for this woman over
here was so incredible to me I'm really
 
 
here was so incredible to me I'm really
 
 
here was so incredible to me I'm really
just restored my faith in humanity
 
 
just restored my faith in humanity
 
 
just restored my faith in humanity
because not everyone had the same
 
 
because not everyone had the same
 
 
because not everyone had the same
reaction as you guys thank you for
 
 
reaction as you guys thank you for
 
 
reaction as you guys thank you for
accepting and appreciating people for
 
 
accepting and appreciating people for
 
 
accepting and appreciating people for
who they are for Nadia and jazz
 
 
who they are for Nadia and jazz
 
 
who they are for Nadia and jazz
situations like our scene are their
 
 
situations like our scene are their
 
 
situations like our scene are their
everyday reality
 
 
everyday reality
 
 
everyday reality
it's hard being trans in this world not
 
 
it's hard being trans in this world not
 
 
it's hard being trans in this world not
everyone agrees with it but I feel like
 
 
everyone agrees with it but I feel like
 
 
everyone agrees with it but I feel like
it makes us stronger and allows us to be
 
 
it makes us stronger and allows us to be
 
 
it makes us stronger and allows us to be
more confident in ourselves I didn't
 
 
more confident in ourselves I didn't
 
 
more confident in ourselves I didn't
even know what trench and there was
 
 
even know what trench and there was
 
 
even know what trench and there was
until I was 14 and I saw Jazz's video it
 
 
until I was 14 and I saw Jazz's video it
 
 
until I was 14 and I saw Jazz's video it
was like yeah yeah yeah you were it was
 
 
was like yeah yeah yeah you were it was
 
 
was like yeah yeah yeah you were it was
like you were really young and I saw it
 
 
like you were really young and I saw it
 
 
like you were really young and I saw it
and that's how I learned what being
 
 
and that's how I learned what being
 
 
and that's how I learned what being
trans was and then I slowly like I am a
 
 
trans was and then I slowly like I am a
 
 
trans was and then I slowly like I am a
woman you know and it was people like
 
 
woman you know and it was people like
 
 
woman you know and it was people like
jazz who really helped me realize like
 
 
jazz who really helped me realize like
 
 
jazz who really helped me realize like
this is who I
 
 
this is who I
 
 
this is who I
so you got to work with your here hi
 
 
so you got to work with your here hi
 
 
so you got to work with your here hi
guys John quinones here thanks so much
 
 
guys John quinones here thanks so much
 
 
guys John quinones here thanks so much
for checking out our YouTube channel
 
 
for checking out our YouTube channel
 
 
for checking out our YouTube channel
there's so much more to see so click on
 
 
there's so much more to see so click on
 
 
there's so much more to see so click on
this red button down here the one that
 
 
this red button down here the one that
 
 
this red button down here the one that
says subscribe and you won't miss
 
 
says subscribe and you won't miss
 
 
says subscribe and you won't miss
another what would you do moment enjoy

 
this morning transgender woman leah

 
this morning transgender woman leah

 
this morning transgender woman leah
thomas is closer to competing in the

 
thomas is closer to competing in the

 
thomas is closer to competing in the
national swimming and diving

 
national swimming and diving

 
national swimming and diving
championships her school the university

 
championships her school the university

 
championships her school the university
of pennsylvania has announced it will
 
 
of pennsylvania has announced it will
 
 
of pennsylvania has announced it will
work to support her after the ncaa this
 
 
work to support her after the ncaa this
 
 
work to support her after the ncaa this
week announced new rules for transgender
 
 
week announced new rules for transgender
 
 
week announced new rules for transgender
athletes the ncaa's new policy effective
 
 
athletes the ncaa's new policy effective
 
 
athletes the ncaa's new policy effective
immediately will be a sport by sport
 
 
immediately will be a sport by sport
 
 
immediately will be a sport by sport
approach that balances fairness
 
 
approach that balances fairness
 
 
approach that balances fairness
inclusion and safety for all who compete
 
 
inclusion and safety for all who compete
 
 
inclusion and safety for all who compete
the eligibility of trans athletes will
 
 
the eligibility of trans athletes will
 
 
the eligibility of trans athletes will
now be determined by each sport's
 
 
now be determined by each sport's
 
 
now be determined by each sport's
national governing body and will then be
 
 
national governing body and will then be
 
 
national governing body and will then be
reviewed by the ncaa chris mosher the
 
 
reviewed by the ncaa chris mosher the
 
 
reviewed by the ncaa chris mosher the
first openly transgender due athlete and
 
 
first openly transgender due athlete and
 
 
first openly transgender due athlete and
triathlete on team usa is critical of
 
 
triathlete on team usa is critical of
 
 
triathlete on team usa is critical of
the change saying the new rules are not
 
 
the change saying the new rules are not
 
 
the change saying the new rules are not
inclusive i'm really worried about the
 
 
inclusive i'm really worried about the
 
 
inclusive i'm really worried about the
transgender and non-binary young people
 
 
transgender and non-binary young people
 
 
transgender and non-binary young people
who are seeing this policy who are
 
 
who are seeing this policy who are
 
 
who are seeing this policy who are
wondering if it's possible for them to
 
 
wondering if it's possible for them to
 
 
wondering if it's possible for them to
be their authentic selves and continue
 
 
be their authentic selves and continue
 
 
be their authentic selves and continue
to play the sports that they love but
 
 
to play the sports that they love but
 
 
to play the sports that they love but
since 2020 10 states have enacted laws
 
 
since 2020 10 states have enacted laws
 
 
since 2020 10 states have enacted laws
restricting the participation of
 
 
restricting the participation of
 
 
restricting the participation of
transgender athletes in sports at nearly
 
 
transgender athletes in sports at nearly
 
 
transgender athletes in sports at nearly
all levels caitlyn jenner a transgender
 
 
all levels caitlyn jenner a transgender
 
 
all levels caitlyn jenner a transgender
woman and former olympic gold medalist
 
 
woman and former olympic gold medalist
 
 
woman and former olympic gold medalist
says the competition is simply not fair
 
 
says the competition is simply not fair
 
 
says the competition is simply not fair
she points to thomas often beating other
 
 
she points to thomas often beating other
 
 
she points to thomas often beating other
female swimmers by two whole laps her
 
 
female swimmers by two whole laps her
 
 
female swimmers by two whole laps her
cardiovascular system is bigger her
 
 
cardiovascular system is bigger her
 
 
cardiovascular system is bigger her
respiratory system is bigger
 
 
respiratory system is bigger
 
 
respiratory system is bigger
her hands are bigger she can swim faster
 
 
her hands are bigger she can swim faster
 
 
her hands are bigger she can swim faster
that's unknown thomas first participated
 
 
that's unknown thomas first participated
 
 
that's unknown thomas first participated
on u penn's men's team but began
 
 
on u penn's men's team but began
 
 
on u penn's men's team but began
competing with the women's swimming team
 
 
competing with the women's swimming team
 
 
competing with the women's swimming team
after transitioning struggling to be
 
 
after transitioning struggling to be
 
 
after transitioning struggling to be
anywhere close to where i was i have to
 
 
anywhere close to where i was i have to
 
 
anywhere close to where i was i have to
like readjust my goals now competing in
 
 
like readjust my goals now competing in
 
 
like readjust my goals now competing in
the women's team she's become one of the
 
 
the women's team she's become one of the
 
 
the women's team she's become one of the
top freestyle swimmers in the country
 
 
top freestyle swimmers in the country
 
 
top freestyle swimmers in the country
the ncaa's new policy is in line with
 
 
the ncaa's new policy is in line with
 
 
the ncaa's new policy is in line with
the u.s olympic committees the previous
 
 
the u.s olympic committees the previous
 
 
the u.s olympic committees the previous
policy was based on hormone therapy
 
 
policy was based on hormone therapy
 
 
policy was based on hormone therapy
requirements
 
 
requirements
 
 
requirements
andrew faith andrea thank you
 
 
andrew faith andrea thank you
 
 
andrew faith andrea thank you
hi everyone george stephanopoulos here
 
 
hi everyone george stephanopoulos here
 
 
hi everyone george stephanopoulos here
thanks for checking out the abc news
 
 
thanks for checking out the abc news
 
 
thanks for checking out the abc news
youtube channel if you'd like to get
 
 
youtube channel if you'd like to get
 
 
youtube channel if you'd like to get
more videos show highlights and watch
 
 
more videos show highlights and watch
 
 
more videos show highlights and watch
live event coverage click on the right
 
 
live event coverage click on the right
 
 
live event coverage click on the right
over here to subscribe to our channel
 
 
over here to subscribe to our channel
 
 
over here to subscribe to our channel
and don't forget to download the abc
 
 
and don't forget to download the abc
 
 
and don't forget to download the abc
news app for breaking news alerts thanks
 
 
news app for breaking news alerts thanks
 
 
news app for breaking news alerts thanks
for watching

 
university of pennsylvania swimmer leah

 
university of pennsylvania swimmer leah

 
university of pennsylvania swimmer leah
thomas taking first place in the ncaa

 
thomas taking first place in the ncaa

 
thomas taking first place in the ncaa
 

 
 

 
 
transgender athlete to be crowned ncaa

 
transgender athlete to be crowned ncaa

 
transgender athlete to be crowned ncaa
champion but not without controversy
 
 
champion but not without controversy
 
 
champion but not without controversy
because critics say she has an unfair
 
 
because critics say she has an unfair
 
 
because critics say she has an unfair
physical advantage over the other
 
 
physical advantage over the other
 
 
physical advantage over the other
swimmers and should not have been
 
 
swimmers and should not have been
 
 
swimmers and should not have been
allowed to compete now second place went
 
 
allowed to compete now second place went
 
 
allowed to compete now second place went
to university of virginia swimmer emma
 
 
to university of virginia swimmer emma
 
 
to university of virginia swimmer emma
wyant who won a silver medal in last
 
 
wyant who won a silver medal in last
 
 
wyant who won a silver medal in last
year's tokyo olympics she's getting an
 
 
year's tokyo olympics she's getting an
 
 
year's tokyo olympics she's getting an
outpouring of support on social media
 
 
outpouring of support on social media
 
 
outpouring of support on social media
with some calling her the true winner
 
 
with some calling her the true winner
 
 
with some calling her the true winner
and we saw lauren at that metal ceremony
 
 
and we saw lauren at that metal ceremony
 
 
and we saw lauren at that metal ceremony
uh the crowd was virtually silent when
 
 
uh the crowd was virtually silent when
 
 
uh the crowd was virtually silent when
leah thomas was announced the the winner
 
 
leah thomas was announced the the winner
 
 
leah thomas was announced the the winner
the first place winner and yet they went
 
 
the first place winner and yet they went
 
 
the first place winner and yet they went
crazy cheering for the second place
 
 
crazy cheering for the second place
 
 
crazy cheering for the second place
because leah thompson
 
 
because leah thompson
 
 
because leah thompson
thomas went through puberty right as a
 
 
thomas went through puberty right as a
 
 
thomas went through puberty right as a
boy she has bigger lungs bigger arms
 
 
boy she has bigger lungs bigger arms
 
 
boy she has bigger lungs bigger arms
bigger hands and now she's competing
 
 
bigger hands and now she's competing
 
 
bigger hands and now she's competing
against women who don't have that
 
 
against women who don't have that
 
 
against women who don't have that
physically so they viewed the second
 
 
physically so they viewed the second
 
 
physically so they viewed the second
place winner uh emma wyant as the first
 
 
place winner uh emma wyant as the first
 
 
place winner uh emma wyant as the first
place winner i think this is a major
 
 
place winner i think this is a major
 
 
place winner i think this is a major
issue for so many athletes so many
 
 
issue for so many athletes so many
 
 
issue for so many athletes so many
parents out there who are raising
 
 
parents out there who are raising
 
 
parents out there who are raising
athletes because the rules of the game
 
 
athletes because the rules of the game
 
 
athletes because the rules of the game
are are changing and we're figuring out
 
 
are are changing and we're figuring out
 
 
are are changing and we're figuring out
what they should be
 
 
what they should be
 
 
what they should be
should transgender athletes have an
 
 
should transgender athletes have an
 
 
should transgender athletes have an
asterisk next to their name
 
 
asterisk next to their name
 
 
asterisk next to their name
if they win
 
 
if they win
 
 
if they win
right because leah was like number 467
 
 
right because leah was like number 467
 
 
right because leah was like number 467
when she competed as a male now she's
 
 
when she competed as a male now she's
 
 
when she competed as a male now she's
number one as a female
 
 
number one as a female
 
 
number one as a female
i mean it just
 
 
i mean it just
 
 
i mean it just
it's a tough issue and i
 
 
it's a tough issue and i
 
 
it's a tough issue and i
i think it's going to be an election
 
 
i think it's going to be an election
 
 
i think it's going to be an election
issue as well and joe conscious so
 
 
issue as well and joe conscious so
 
 
issue as well and joe conscious so
martina navratilova tennis legend came
 
 
martina navratilova tennis legend came
 
 
martina navratilova tennis legend came
out sort of said the exact same thing
 
 
out sort of said the exact same thing
 
 
out sort of said the exact same thing
she said maybe maybe the solution in the
 
 
she said maybe maybe the solution in the
 
 
she said maybe maybe the solution in the
interim is that you say you know you're
 
 
interim is that you say you know you're
 
 
interim is that you say you know you're
honoring the decisions of these
 
 
honoring the decisions of these
 
 
honoring the decisions of these
transgender athletes but you're not
 
 
transgender athletes but you're not
 
 
transgender athletes but you're not
negatively affecting those who have
 
 
negatively affecting those who have
 
 
negatively affecting those who have
worked so hard to get where they are so
 
 
worked so hard to get where they are so
 
 
worked so hard to get where they are so
maybe you put an asterisk by the name
 
 
maybe you put an asterisk by the name
 
 
maybe you put an asterisk by the name
you reserve medals uh you come up with
 
 
you reserve medals uh you come up with
 
 
you reserve medals uh you come up with
some type of interim solution
 
 
some type of interim solution
 
 
some type of interim solution
in in the gray area right now joe
 
 
in in the gray area right now joe
 
 
in in the gray area right now joe
that's that's not a bad idea at all and
 
 
that's that's not a bad idea at all and
 
 
that's that's not a bad idea at all and
if the producers just put up that full
 
 
if the producers just put up that full
 
 
if the producers just put up that full
screen real quick if you could the first
 
 
screen real quick if you could the first
 
 
screen real quick if you could the first
uh full screen showing the three
 
 
uh full screen showing the three
 
 
uh full screen showing the three
swimmers because that really hits home
 
 
swimmers because that really hits home
 
 
swimmers because that really hits home
in terms of the advantage right that
 
 
in terms of the advantage right that
 
 
in terms of the advantage right that
we're seeing here and look my wife is a
 
 
we're seeing here and look my wife is a
 
 
we're seeing here and look my wife is a
former division one athlete right and
 
 
former division one athlete right and
 
 
former division one athlete right and
look at that guys uh and she would tell
 
 
look at that guys uh and she would tell
 
 
look at that guys uh and she would tell
me about the training regimen that she
 
 
me about the training regimen that she
 
 
me about the training regimen that she
had to go through in terms of being on
 
 
had to go through in terms of being on
 
 
had to go through in terms of being on
the track team at her school on top of
 
 
the track team at her school on top of
 
 
the track team at her school on top of
being pre-med it's just such an
 
 
being pre-med it's just such an
 
 
being pre-med it's just such an
overwhelming commitment and for these
 
 
overwhelming commitment and for these
 
 
overwhelming commitment and for these
girls that are competing knowing knowing
 
 
girls that are competing knowing knowing
 
 
girls that are competing knowing knowing
when they go into a competition that
 
 
when they go into a competition that
 
 
when they go into a competition that
they're gonna lose because one person
 
 
they're gonna lose because one person
 
 
they're gonna lose because one person
they're competing against has a decided
 
 
they're competing against has a decided
 
 
they're competing against has a decided
physical advantage it's a whole ball of
 
 
physical advantage it's a whole ball of
 
 
physical advantage it's a whole ball of
wrong but if you criticize this somehow
 
 
wrong but if you criticize this somehow
 
 
wrong but if you criticize this somehow
you're anti-trans somehow of course not
 
 
you're anti-trans somehow of course not
 
 
you're anti-trans somehow of course not
it's just a matter of asking for a level
 
 
it's just a matter of asking for a level
 
 
it's just a matter of asking for a level
competitive playing field and i don't
 
 
competitive playing field and i don't
 
 
competitive playing field and i don't
see why that's controversial in any way
 
 
see why that's controversial in any way
 
 
see why that's controversial in any way
and harris we have parents um actually a
 
 
and harris we have parents um actually a
 
 
and harris we have parents um actually a
video of them that that spoke with fox
 
 
video of them that that spoke with fox
 
 
video of them that that spoke with fox
digital earlier um and they sort of made
 
 
digital earlier um and they sort of made
 
 
digital earlier um and they sort of made
that same point they said this isn't
 
 
that same point they said this isn't
 
 
that same point they said this isn't
really the right place to honor those
 
 
really the right place to honor those
 
 
really the right place to honor those
decisions of transgenders because it's
 
 
decisions of transgenders because it's
 
 
decisions of transgenders because it's
negatively impacting the biological
 
 
negatively impacting the biological
 
 
negatively impacting the biological
females that have worked so hard we'll
 
 
females that have worked so hard we'll
 
 
females that have worked so hard we'll
play that
 
 
play that
 
 
play that
we do not support a biological male
 
 
we do not support a biological male
 
 
we do not support a biological male
swimming in the women's championship
 
 
swimming in the women's championship
 
 
swimming in the women's championship
meet
 
 
meet
 
 
meet
against females
 
 
against females
 
 
against females
it is an unfair advantage he's a human
 
 
it is an unfair advantage he's a human
 
 
it is an unfair advantage he's a human
we should respect that and what he wants
 
 
we should respect that and what he wants
 
 
we should respect that and what he wants
to do with his life
 
 
to do with his life
 
 
to do with his life
but this isn't the place to do it it's
 
 
but this isn't the place to do it it's
 
 
but this isn't the place to do it it's
taking opportunity away from females
 
 
taking opportunity away from females
 
 
taking opportunity away from females
that have worked very very hard for
 
 
that have worked very very hard for
 
 
that have worked very very hard for
a long long time even before college to
 
 
a long long time even before college to
 
 
a long long time even before college to
get in this position
 
 
get in this position
 
 
get in this position
and
 
 
and
 
 
and
it's just not right
 
 
 
 
so i think it is worth bearing saying
 
 
so i think it is worth bearing saying
 
 
so i think it is worth bearing saying
again
 
 
again
 
 
again
this is not about a lack of love
 
 
this is not about a lack of love
 
 
this is not about a lack of love
for trans transgender community it's
 
 
for trans transgender community it's
 
 
for trans transgender community it's
about also honoring who they are and
 
 
about also honoring who they are and
 
 
about also honoring who they are and
their journey
 
 
their journey
 
 
their journey
maybe either an asterisk or a separate
 
 
maybe either an asterisk or a separate
 
 
maybe either an asterisk or a separate
but equal division
 
 
but equal division
 
 
but equal division
it you know we've got to come up with an
 
 
it you know we've got to come up with an
 
 
it you know we've got to come up with an
answer these are our children

 
she may have earned four medals in the

 
she may have earned four medals in the

 
she may have earned four medals in the
pool back at the 1984 olympic games but

 
pool back at the 1984 olympic games but

 
pool back at the 1984 olympic games but
nancy hogshead magar is still fighting

 
nancy hogshead magar is still fighting

 
nancy hogshead magar is still fighting
for equality in women's sports and is

 
for equality in women's sports and is

 
for equality in women's sports and is
the head of champion women which
 
 
the head of champion women which
 
 
the head of champion women which
advocates for girls and women in sports
 
 
advocates for girls and women in sports
 
 
advocates for girls and women in sports
i'm really concerned that this that leah
 
 
i'm really concerned that this that leah
 
 
i'm really concerned that this that leah
thomas is setting the cause of
 
 
thomas is setting the cause of
 
 
thomas is setting the cause of
transgender people back decades she
 
 
transgender people back decades she
 
 
transgender people back decades she
personally did follow the rules those
 
 
personally did follow the rules those
 
 
personally did follow the rules those
were the ncaa rules
 
 
were the ncaa rules
 
 
were the ncaa rules
but
 
 
but
 
 
but
it's a place that everybody can see this
 
 
it's a place that everybody can see this
 
 
it's a place that everybody can see this
is just not fair
 
 
is just not fair
 
 
is just not fair
hogshead maker believes leah thomas's
 
 
hogshead maker believes leah thomas's
 
 
hogshead maker believes leah thomas's
race times show there is a genderlinked
 
 
race times show there is a genderlinked
 
 
race times show there is a genderlinked
advantage women's sports matter we need
 
 
advantage women's sports matter we need
 
 
advantage women's sports matter we need
to make sure that the boundaries of the
 
 
to make sure that the boundaries of the
 
 
to make sure that the boundaries of the
girls and women's category are very
 
 
girls and women's category are very
 
 
girls and women's category are very
clearly defined in the same way that a
 
 
clearly defined in the same way that a
 
 
clearly defined in the same way that a
weight category or an age category she
 
 
weight category or an age category she
 
 
weight category or an age category she
is frustrated over the sharp divide on
 
 
is frustrated over the sharp divide on
 
 
is frustrated over the sharp divide on
the topic how this has become either a
 
 
the topic how this has become either a
 
 
the topic how this has become either a
right wing or left-wing issue that it's
 
 
right wing or left-wing issue that it's
 
 
right wing or left-wing issue that it's
either you know full-on progressive
 
 
either you know full-on progressive
 
 
either you know full-on progressive
you've got to swallow the whole thing
 
 
you've got to swallow the whole thing
 
 
you've got to swallow the whole thing
the trans women are women there cannot
 
 
the trans women are women there cannot
 
 
the trans women are women there cannot
be any exception whatsoever we're not
 
 
be any exception whatsoever we're not
 
 
be any exception whatsoever we're not
going to we're going to ignore biology
 
 
going to we're going to ignore biology
 
 
going to we're going to ignore biology
and science or alternatively you're
 
 
and science or alternatively you're
 
 
and science or alternatively you're
going to use sport as the vehicle to
 
 
going to use sport as the vehicle to
 
 
going to use sport as the vehicle to
express trans hate and that's exactly
 
 
express trans hate and that's exactly
 
 
express trans hate and that's exactly
what
 
 
what
 
 
what
governor desantis did she believes the
 
 
governor desantis did she believes the
 
 
governor desantis did she believes the
current culture debate needs to shift to
 
 
current culture debate needs to shift to
 
 
current culture debate needs to shift to
a conversation i automatically go to the
 
 
a conversation i automatically go to the
 
 
a conversation i automatically go to the
next step which is what are the ways
 
 
next step which is what are the ways
 
 
next step which is what are the ways
that we can accommodate trans athletes
 
 
that we can accommodate trans athletes
 
 
that we can accommodate trans athletes
so that they can participate in sports
 
 
so that they can participate in sports
 
 
so that they can participate in sports
hawks head maker says it's important
 
 
hawks head maker says it's important
 
 
hawks head maker says it's important
that any accommodation put in place
 
 
that any accommodation put in place
 
 
that any accommodation put in place
doesn't take opportunities away from
 
 
doesn't take opportunities away from
 
 
doesn't take opportunities away from
those who were born female i'm haley
 
 
those who were born female i'm haley
 
 
those who were born female i'm haley
harrison first coast news on your side

 
i wanted to ask you about this

 
i wanted to ask you about this

 
i wanted to ask you about this
legislation that came through the

 
legislation that came through the

 
legislation that came through the
oklahoma legislature this morning

 
oklahoma legislature this morning

 
oklahoma legislature this morning
banning transgender athletes nca has

 
banning transgender athletes nca has

 
banning transgender athletes nca has
said before
 
 
said before
 
 
said before
that they'll be looking at that as it
 
 
that they'll be looking at that as it
 
 
that they'll be looking at that as it
relates to ncaa championships you guys
 
 
relates to ncaa championships you guys
 
 
relates to ncaa championships you guys
obviously are regional and super
 
 
obviously are regional and super
 
 
obviously are regional and super
regional hosts on a regular basis have
 
 
regional hosts on a regular basis have
 
 
regional hosts on a regular basis have
the women's college world series down
 
 
the women's college world series down
 
 
the women's college world series down
the road what's your level of concern
 
 
the road what's your level of concern
 
 
the road what's your level of concern
about this and what it could potentially
 
 
about this and what it could potentially
 
 
about this and what it could potentially
mean for your program and softball more
 
 
mean for your program and softball more
 
 
mean for your program and softball more
at large
 
 
at large
 
 
at large
you know i haven't really
 
 
you know i haven't really
 
 
you know i haven't really
and i know this happened it happened
 
 
and i know this happened it happened
 
 
and i know this happened it happened
very quickly so i haven't been really
 
 
very quickly so i haven't been really
 
 
very quickly so i haven't been really
in research mode
 
 
in research mode
 
 
in research mode
i will learn more as we go along
 
 
i will learn more as we go along
 
 
i will learn more as we go along
i know the university of oklahoma
 
 
i know the university of oklahoma
 
 
i know the university of oklahoma
promotes and our mission statement is
 
 
promotes and our mission statement is
 
 
promotes and our mission statement is
inc inclusiveness
 
 
inc inclusiveness
 
 
inc inclusiveness
and we live by that and we you know joe
 
 
and we live by that and we you know joe
 
 
and we live by that and we you know joe
castiglione and president harris
 
 
castiglione and president harris
 
 
castiglione and president harris
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
really
 
 
really
 
 
really
push that
 
 
push that
 
 
push that
in the athletic department
 
 
in the athletic department
 
 
in the athletic department
across campus universally and you see it
 
 
across campus universally and you see it
 
 
across campus universally and you see it
you see it in the way we do things so
 
 
you see it in the way we do things so
 
 
you see it in the way we do things so
i know that means a lot to us but when
 
 
i know that means a lot to us but when
 
 
i know that means a lot to us but when
it comes to these things like it's so
 
 
it comes to these things like it's so
 
 
it comes to these things like it's so
out of my control i don't know enough
 
 
out of my control i don't know enough
 
 
out of my control i don't know enough
about it
 
 
about it
 
 
about it
um it would be hard to lose
 
 
um it would be hard to lose
 
 
um it would be hard to lose
championships and so forth
 
 
championships and so forth
 
 
championships and so forth
i just don't know enough yet now that
 
 
i just don't know enough yet now that
 
 
i just don't know enough yet now that
things have are moving
 
 
things have are moving
 
 
things have are moving
and we can dive into this i will have
 
 
and we can dive into this i will have
 
 
and we can dive into this i will have
more
 
 
more
 
 
more
of a reaction but right now i just i
 
 
of a reaction but right now i just i
 
 
of a reaction but right now i just i
don't know enough to give you anything
 
 
don't know enough to give you anything
 
 
don't know enough to give you anything
um
 
 
um
 
 
um
concrete really i know we've uh
 
 
concrete really i know we've uh
 
 
concrete really i know we've uh
obviously you've talked before and you
 
 
obviously you've talked before and you
 
 
obviously you've talked before and you
know a lot's been said and written about
 
 
know a lot's been said and written about
 
 
know a lot's been said and written about
the importance of having the women's
 
 
the importance of having the women's
 
 
the importance of having the women's
college world series
 
 
college world series
 
 
college world series
so close to what you all have built um
 
 
so close to what you all have built um
 
 
so close to what you all have built um
i'm not saying it's gonna happen but
 
 
i'm not saying it's gonna happen but
 
 
i'm not saying it's gonna happen but
let's say that in the future somewhere
 
 
let's say that in the future somewhere
 
 
let's say that in the future somewhere
the women's college world series was
 
 
the women's college world series was
 
 
the women's college world series was
elsewhere um could you envision just
 
 
elsewhere um could you envision just
 
 
elsewhere um could you envision just
what kind of impact that might have or
 
 
what kind of impact that might have or
 
 
what kind of impact that might have or
do you feel like at this point where
 
 
do you feel like at this point where
 
 
do you feel like at this point where
your program is
 
 
your program is
 
 
your program is
maybe it wouldn't be as
 
 
maybe it wouldn't be as
 
 
maybe it wouldn't be as
impactful as it might have been
 
 
impactful as it might have been
 
 
impactful as it might have been
at some point in the future
 
 
at some point in the future
 
 
at some point in the future
well it it would i think about the
 
 
well it it would i think about the
 
 
well it it would i think about the
community i think about the state and
 
 
community i think about the state and
 
 
community i think about the state and
what we gain as a city from the college
 
 
what we gain as a city from the college
 
 
what we gain as a city from the college
world series i think about what that
 
 
world series i think about what that
 
 
world series i think about what that
does for
 
 
does for
 
 
does for
promoting our city and our state so it's
 
 
promoting our city and our state so it's
 
 
promoting our city and our state so it's
much bigger than just our team getting
 
 
much bigger than just our team getting
 
 
much bigger than just our team getting
the opportunity to play and what
 
 
the opportunity to play and what
 
 
the opportunity to play and what
everyone is saying is our home field
 
 
everyone is saying is our home field
 
 
everyone is saying is our home field
so i would hate to see that just for
 
 
so i would hate to see that just for
 
 
so i would hate to see that just for
what it brings to our city and so forth
 
 
what it brings to our city and so forth
 
 
what it brings to our city and so forth
but you can send us to alaska and we're
 
 
but you can send us to alaska and we're
 
 
but you can send us to alaska and we're
going to play for a national
 
 
going to play for a national
 
 
going to play for a national
championship so i don't care where it is
 
 
championship so i don't care where it is
 
 
championship so i don't care where it is
if we're in it we're in it to win it
 
 
if we're in it we're in it to win it
 
 
if we're in it we're in it to win it
whether it's in oklahoma and it would it
 
 
whether it's in oklahoma and it would it
 
 
whether it's in oklahoma and it would it
would be a shame if that happened but
 
 
would be a shame if that happened but
 
 
would be a shame if that happened but
again so many things were out of our
 
 
again so many things were out of our
 
 
again so many things were out of our
control wherever we are sent we will be
 
 
control wherever we are sent we will be
 
 
control wherever we are sent we will be
there
 
 
there
 
 
there
so that's
 
 
so that's
 
 
so that's
i just worry more about
 
 
i just worry more about
 
 
i just worry more about
um just the financial piece and
 
 
um just the financial piece and
 
 
um just the financial piece and
how
 
 
how
 
 
how
oklahoma city really flourishes off of
 
 
oklahoma city really flourishes off of
 
 
oklahoma city really flourishes off of
this college world series as well
 
 
this college world series as well
 
 
this college world series as well
a lot of people are impacted by that not
 
 
a lot of people are impacted by that not
 
 
a lot of people are impacted by that not
just the sooners

 
my name is ella and i'm seven years old

 
my name is ella and i'm seven years old

 
my name is ella and i'm seven years old
and i'm transgender

 
and i'm transgender

 
and i'm transgender
i realize that i was a girl when i was

 
i realize that i was a girl when i was

 
i realize that i was a girl when i was
four

 
four

 
four
she would say you know i think i was
 
 
she would say you know i think i was
 
 
she would say you know i think i was
supposed to be a girl
 
 
supposed to be a girl
 
 
supposed to be a girl
in your tummy why did i come out this
 
 
in your tummy why did i come out this
 
 
in your tummy why did i come out this
way
 
 
way
 
 
way
we support our daughter's transition
 
 
we support our daughter's transition
 
 
we support our daughter's transition
even though we've had some judgment
 
 
even though we've had some judgment
 
 
even though we've had some judgment
a child cannot decide something like
 
 
a child cannot decide something like
 
 
a child cannot decide something like
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
he is six years old this should be
 
 
he is six years old this should be
 
 
he is six years old this should be
against the law
 
 
against the law
 
 
against the law
shame on you the hardest one for me to
 
 
shame on you the hardest one for me to
 
 
shame on you the hardest one for me to
deal with is for people to call
 
 
deal with is for people to call
 
 
deal with is for people to call
us child abusers i want a happy and
 
 
us child abusers i want a happy and
 
 
us child abusers i want a happy and
healthy kid
 
 
healthy kid
 
 
healthy kid
period so if this is the way she
 
 
period so if this is the way she
 
 
period so if this is the way she
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
 
 
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
 
 
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
so be it
 
 
 
 
here's my bedroom
 
 
here's my bedroom
 
 
here's my bedroom
my favorite color is rainbow
 
 
my favorite color is rainbow
 
 
my favorite color is rainbow
transgender means you're a boy from a
 
 
transgender means you're a boy from a
 
 
transgender means you're a boy from a
girl or a girl to the boy
 
 
girl or a girl to the boy
 
 
girl or a girl to the boy
my favorite skirt i realized that i was
 
 
my favorite skirt i realized that i was
 
 
my favorite skirt i realized that i was
a girl when i was
 
 
a girl when i was
 
 
a girl when i was
like four it has blue which is my
 
 
like four it has blue which is my
 
 
like four it has blue which is my
third favorite color gray which is my
 
 
third favorite color gray which is my
 
 
third favorite color gray which is my
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
your name to ella
 
 
your name to ella
 
 
your name to ella
do you feel pretty much happy most of
 
 
do you feel pretty much happy most of
 
 
do you feel pretty much happy most of
the time yeah
 
 
the time yeah
 
 
the time yeah
can you tell me about that i really like
 
 
can you tell me about that i really like
 
 
can you tell me about that i really like
the name ella i didn't really like the
 
 
the name ella i didn't really like the
 
 
the name ella i didn't really like the
name
 
 
name
 
 
name
easton what did you not like about the
 
 
easton what did you not like about the
 
 
easton what did you not like about the
name easton
 
 
name easton
 
 
name easton
like it's a boy name when ella was two
 
 
like it's a boy name when ella was two
 
 
like it's a boy name when ella was two
um she started showing signs of
 
 
um she started showing signs of
 
 
um she started showing signs of
gender non-conforming around four when
 
 
gender non-conforming around four when
 
 
gender non-conforming around four when
she
 
 
she
 
 
she
was able to verbalize more and
 
 
was able to verbalize more and
 
 
was able to verbalize more and
she would say you know i think i was
 
 
she would say you know i think i was
 
 
she would say you know i think i was
supposed to be a girl
 
 
supposed to be a girl
 
 
supposed to be a girl
in your tummy why did i come out this
 
 
in your tummy why did i come out this
 
 
in your tummy why did i come out this
way
 
 
way
 
 
way
one day she in the bathroom threw down
 
 
one day she in the bathroom threw down
 
 
one day she in the bathroom threw down
her fist and said
 
 
her fist and said
 
 
her fist and said
make me a girl mom i want to be a girl
 
 
make me a girl mom i want to be a girl
 
 
make me a girl mom i want to be a girl
and so that
 
 
and so that
 
 
and so that
was the night that i really knew before
 
 
was the night that i really knew before
 
 
was the night that i really knew before
we let her transition
 
 
we let her transition
 
 
we let her transition
i think we spent more time worrying
 
 
i think we spent more time worrying
 
 
i think we spent more time worrying
about what everyone else would think
 
 
about what everyone else would think
 
 
about what everyone else would think
than what was actually best for her
 
 
than what was actually best for her
 
 
than what was actually best for her
i'm glad that we have gotten past that
 
 
i'm glad that we have gotten past that
 
 
i'm glad that we have gotten past that
to where you know i'm gonna do what's
 
 
to where you know i'm gonna do what's
 
 
to where you know i'm gonna do what's
best for our family
 
 
best for our family
 
 
best for our family
this one she had a cute skirt and this
 
 
this one she had a cute skirt and this
 
 
this one she had a cute skirt and this
one she has a cute skirt too
 
 
one she has a cute skirt too
 
 
one she has a cute skirt too
letting her explore her gender right now
 
 
letting her explore her gender right now
 
 
letting her explore her gender right now
is not hurting
 
 
is not hurting
 
 
is not hurting
anybody this is my second favorite one
 
 
anybody this is my second favorite one
 
 
anybody this is my second favorite one
the hair is so
 
 
the hair is so
 
 
the hair is so
cute today we're gonna dye my hair
 
 
cute today we're gonna dye my hair
 
 
cute today we're gonna dye my hair
pink and purple are you serious
 
 
pink and purple are you serious
 
 
pink and purple are you serious
why pink and purple uh
 
 
why pink and purple uh
 
 
why pink and purple uh
pink and purple are one of my favorite
 
 
pink and purple are one of my favorite
 
 
pink and purple are one of my favorite
colors
 
 
colors
 
 
colors
were you ever sad because you felt like
 
 
were you ever sad because you felt like
 
 
were you ever sad because you felt like
you were
 
 
you were
 
 
you were
you were a girl but people said you were
 
 
you were a girl but people said you were
 
 
you were a girl but people said you were
a boy
 
 
a boy
 
 
a boy
yeah can you tell me about that well i
 
 
yeah can you tell me about that well i
 
 
yeah can you tell me about that well i
don't know why they bullied me just
 
 
don't know why they bullied me just
 
 
don't know why they bullied me just
because
 
 
because
 
 
because
they said you can't be a girl you have
 
 
they said you can't be a girl you have
 
 
they said you can't be a girl you have
to be a boy
 
 
to be a boy
 
 
to be a boy
we support our daughter's transition
 
 
we support our daughter's transition
 
 
we support our daughter's transition
even though we've had some judgment
 
 
 
 
a child cannot decide something like
 
 
a child cannot decide something like
 
 
a child cannot decide something like
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
dumbfounded loss for words what happened
 
 
dumbfounded loss for words what happened
 
 
dumbfounded loss for words what happened
to society
 
 
to society
 
 
to society
he is six years old this should be
 
 
he is six years old this should be
 
 
he is six years old this should be
against the law
 
 
against the law
 
 
against the law
shame on you how does it make you feel
 
 
shame on you how does it make you feel
 
 
shame on you how does it make you feel
as a mom reading this moment
 
 
as a mom reading this moment
 
 
as a mom reading this moment
um sorry
 
 
 
 
dang it it's hard i mean people are
 
 
dang it it's hard i mean people are
 
 
dang it it's hard i mean people are
basically judging our family i feel like
 
 
basically judging our family i feel like
 
 
basically judging our family i feel like
you know
 
 
you know
 
 
you know
we love our kids unconditionally both of
 
 
we love our kids unconditionally both of
 
 
we love our kids unconditionally both of
them
 
 
them
 
 
them
we want them to turn out to be the best
 
 
we want them to turn out to be the best
 
 
we want them to turn out to be the best
versions of themselves so
 
 
versions of themselves so
 
 
versions of themselves so
they can be not our job to make them who
 
 
they can be not our job to make them who
 
 
they can be not our job to make them who
we want them to be
 
 
we want them to be
 
 
we want them to be
ella is being herself and we're going to
 
 
ella is being herself and we're going to
 
 
ella is being herself and we're going to
support
 
 
support
 
 
support
and love that and same thing with grant
 
 
and love that and same thing with grant
 
 
and love that and same thing with grant
the hardest one for me to deal with is
 
 
the hardest one for me to deal with is
 
 
the hardest one for me to deal with is
for people to tell us that we don't
 
 
for people to tell us that we don't
 
 
for people to tell us that we don't
deserve to have our kids
 
 
deserve to have our kids
 
 
deserve to have our kids
that we're child abusers truth is is
 
 
that we're child abusers truth is is
 
 
that we're child abusers truth is is
that most of the people that
 
 
that most of the people that
 
 
that most of the people that
write these hateful comments have no
 
 
write these hateful comments have no
 
 
write these hateful comments have no
clue what the process is they have not
 
 
clue what the process is they have not
 
 
clue what the process is they have not
done any kind of
 
 
done any kind of
 
 
done any kind of
research into it i want to have a happy
 
 
research into it i want to have a happy
 
 
research into it i want to have a happy
and healthy kid
 
 
and healthy kid
 
 
and healthy kid
period if this is the way she
 
 
period if this is the way she
 
 
period if this is the way she
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
 
 
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
 
 
needs to do it to be happy and healthy
so be it
 
 
so be it
 
 
so be it
have you tried to shield ella from this
 
 
have you tried to shield ella from this
 
 
have you tried to shield ella from this
type of negativity
 
 
type of negativity
 
 
type of negativity
yeah yeah i have told her there might be
 
 
yeah yeah i have told her there might be
 
 
yeah yeah i have told her there might be
some
 
 
some
 
 
some
kids that are mean and you know not
 
 
kids that are mean and you know not
 
 
kids that are mean and you know not
everybody understands
 
 
everybody understands
 
 
everybody understands
but she doesn't care and she
 
 
but she doesn't care and she
 
 
but she doesn't care and she
is just wants to be who she is and she
 
 
is just wants to be who she is and she
 
 
is just wants to be who she is and she
doesn't care
 
 
doesn't care
 
 
doesn't care
what people say she's very
 
 
what people say she's very
 
 
what people say she's very
unapologetically
 
 
unapologetically
 
 
unapologetically
yellow all right go sit down on your
 
 
yellow all right go sit down on your
 
 
yellow all right go sit down on your
chair
 
 
chair
 
 
chair
you might be wondering what are we doing
 
 
you might be wondering what are we doing
 
 
you might be wondering what are we doing
we're dyeing my hair
 
 
 
 
so first we're gonna do pink because
 
 
so first we're gonna do pink because
 
 
so first we're gonna do pink because
pink is my favorite color you know
 
 
pink is my favorite color you know
 
 
pink is my favorite color you know
that there's no life altering
 
 
that there's no life altering
 
 
that there's no life altering
that's changes going on right life
 
 
that's changes going on right life
 
 
that's changes going on right life
altering changes going on right now and
 
 
altering changes going on right now and
 
 
altering changes going on right now and
later on if that's what makes her happy
 
 
later on if that's what makes her happy
 
 
later on if that's what makes her happy
and then we'll support her to do that
 
 
and then we'll support her to do that
 
 
and then we'll support her to do that
even if she were to change her mind
 
 
even if she were to change her mind
 
 
even if she were to change her mind
at some point we would still support
 
 
at some point we would still support
 
 
at some point we would still support
that and
 
 
 
 
deal with that too next for ella's
 
 
deal with that too next for ella's
 
 
deal with that too next for ella's
transition would be
 
 
transition would be
 
 
transition would be
hopefully changing her birth certificate
 
 
hopefully changing her birth certificate
 
 
hopefully changing her birth certificate
in the near
 
 
in the near
 
 
in the near
future would you want to
 
 
future would you want to
 
 
future would you want to
change your birth certificate
 
 
change your birth certificate
 
 
change your birth certificate
yeah you're going to change it
 
 
yeah you're going to change it
 
 
yeah you're going to change it
yeah and i want the papers to
 
 
yeah and i want the papers to
 
 
yeah and i want the papers to
say that i'm a girl now i love this
 
 
say that i'm a girl now i love this
 
 
say that i'm a girl now i love this
are y'all ready for the pink and purple
 
 
are y'all ready for the pink and purple
 
 
are y'all ready for the pink and purple
miss ella you ready for this
 
 
 
 
let's go baby i like it
 
 
let's go baby i like it
 
 
let's go baby i like it
what message do you want to tell to
 
 
what message do you want to tell to
 
 
what message do you want to tell to
people that maybe aren't very nice to
 
 
people that maybe aren't very nice to
 
 
people that maybe aren't very nice to
transgender people
 
 
transgender people
 
 
transgender people
stop being mean to transgender people
 
 
stop being mean to transgender people
 
 
stop being mean to transgender people
just because they're different
 
 
 
 
i feel like ella's taught me more than
 
 
i feel like ella's taught me more than
 
 
i feel like ella's taught me more than
i've taught her you know
 
 
i've taught her you know
 
 
i've taught her you know
about how to live life i think she could
 
 
about how to live life i think she could
 
 
about how to live life i think she could
teach everyone a lot about
 
 
teach everyone a lot about
 
 
teach everyone a lot about
how to love yourself and be who you want
 
 
how to love yourself and be who you want
 
 
how to love yourself and be who you want
to be you know
 
 
to be you know
 
 
to be you know
if you're transgender out there then
 
 
if you're transgender out there then
 
 
if you're transgender out there then
you're just like me and you're special
 
 
 
 
you

 
now that this battle in the legislature

 
now that this battle in the legislature

 
now that this battle in the legislature
is done for now utahns who've been

 
is done for now utahns who've been

 
is done for now utahns who've been
watching today's vote are already

 
watching today's vote are already

 
watching today's vote are already
talking about what comes next fox 13

 
talking about what comes next fox 13

 
talking about what comes next fox 13
news reporter spencer joseph spoke with
 
 
news reporter spencer joseph spoke with
 
 
news reporter spencer joseph spoke with
those on all sides of this issue about
 
 
those on all sides of this issue about
 
 
those on all sides of this issue about
what they expect will happen he joins us
 
 
what they expect will happen he joins us
 
 
what they expect will happen he joins us
live tonight from utah's capitol hill
 
 
live tonight from utah's capitol hill
 
 
live tonight from utah's capitol hill
spencer
 
 
 
 
good evening at this point it seems like
 
 
good evening at this point it seems like
 
 
good evening at this point it seems like
a matter of time before a lawsuit is
 
 
a matter of time before a lawsuit is
 
 
a matter of time before a lawsuit is
filed and we've established the aclu is
 
 
filed and we've established the aclu is
 
 
filed and we've established the aclu is
already planning to do so saying it's
 
 
already planning to do so saying it's
 
 
already planning to do so saying it's
both necessary and inevitable after
 
 
both necessary and inevitable after
 
 
both necessary and inevitable after
today but those on all sides of this
 
 
today but those on all sides of this
 
 
today but those on all sides of this
topic today say they're ready for the
 
 
topic today say they're ready for the
 
 
topic today say they're ready for the
next steps of this debate
 
 
next steps of this debate
 
 
next steps of this debate
as lawmakers were on the floor
 
 
as lawmakers were on the floor
 
 
as lawmakers were on the floor
overriding governor cox veto of the
 
 
overriding governor cox veto of the
 
 
overriding governor cox veto of the
transgender athletics ban
 
 
transgender athletics ban
 
 
transgender athletics ban
those watching on inside and outside of
 
 
those watching on inside and outside of
 
 
those watching on inside and outside of
the chambers were ready for what comes
 
 
the chambers were ready for what comes
 
 
the chambers were ready for what comes
next i think we knew what the outcome
 
 
next i think we knew what the outcome
 
 
next i think we knew what the outcome
was going to be sunny washington is the
 
 
was going to be sunny washington is the
 
 
was going to be sunny washington is the
ceo of tech leads utah the pack that
 
 
ceo of tech leads utah the pack that
 
 
ceo of tech leads utah the pack that
represents silicon slopes as much
 
 
represents silicon slopes as much
 
 
represents silicon slopes as much
positive pr i can put about you know
 
 
positive pr i can put about you know
 
 
positive pr i can put about you know
utah tech and all these great companies
 
 
utah tech and all these great companies
 
 
utah tech and all these great companies
and what they're doing these dollars are
 
 
and what they're doing these dollars are
 
 
and what they're doing these dollars are
working against us just by the headlines
 
 
working against us just by the headlines
 
 
working against us just by the headlines
that are out there and she feels this
 
 
that are out there and she feels this
 
 
that are out there and she feels this
debate is not over we're disappointed
 
 
debate is not over we're disappointed
 
 
debate is not over we're disappointed
but from our standpoint
 
 
but from our standpoint
 
 
but from our standpoint
we look at the
 
 
we look at the
 
 
we look at the
fiscal
 
 
fiscal
 
 
fiscal
irresponsibility of using taxpayer
 
 
irresponsibility of using taxpayer
 
 
irresponsibility of using taxpayer
dollars to fight these lawsuits that we
 
 
dollars to fight these lawsuits that we
 
 
dollars to fight these lawsuits that we
know are going to come we didn't need to
 
 
know are going to come we didn't need to
 
 
know are going to come we didn't need to
do this in the first place another group
 
 
do this in the first place another group
 
 
do this in the first place another group
gearing up for lawsuits is equality utah
 
 
gearing up for lawsuits is equality utah
 
 
gearing up for lawsuits is equality utah
what i really hope going forward is that
 
 
what i really hope going forward is that
 
 
what i really hope going forward is that
this bill in its entirety
 
 
this bill in its entirety
 
 
this bill in its entirety
is turned away by the court as
 
 
is turned away by the court as
 
 
is turned away by the court as
disheartening as this is we know we have
 
 
disheartening as this is we know we have
 
 
disheartening as this is we know we have
allies we know we have an ally in the
 
 
allies we know we have an ally in the
 
 
allies we know we have an ally in the
governor right now even so they're
 
 
governor right now even so they're
 
 
governor right now even so they're
frustrated with today there's
 
 
frustrated with today there's
 
 
frustrated with today there's
no caring for the kids you can say you
 
 
no caring for the kids you can say you
 
 
no caring for the kids you can say you
care but caring is out of action i'm
 
 
care but caring is out of action i'm
 
 
care but caring is out of action i'm
really happy that we have the
 
 
really happy that we have the
 
 
really happy that we have the
legislators that oppose this on the
 
 
legislators that oppose this on the
 
 
legislators that oppose this on the
other side former collegiate athletes
 
 
other side former collegiate athletes
 
 
other side former collegiate athletes
tiffany barker and stephanie grant are
 
 
tiffany barker and stephanie grant are
 
 
tiffany barker and stephanie grant are
praising the legislature for today's
 
 
praising the legislature for today's
 
 
praising the legislature for today's
override people of utah are speaking
 
 
override people of utah are speaking
 
 
override people of utah are speaking
and the legislators are speaking and we
 
 
and the legislators are speaking and we
 
 
and the legislators are speaking and we
have a governor who ignored both of that
 
 
have a governor who ignored both of that
 
 
have a governor who ignored both of that
despite the threat of lawsuits the pair
 
 
despite the threat of lawsuits the pair
 
 
despite the threat of lawsuits the pair
and many others believe this was the
 
 
and many others believe this was the
 
 
and many others believe this was the
right thing to do you should always do
 
 
right thing to do you should always do
 
 
right thing to do you should always do
the right thing regardless of if someone
 
 
the right thing regardless of if someone
 
 
the right thing regardless of if someone
will sue you or not allowing men to
 
 
will sue you or not allowing men to
 
 
will sue you or not allowing men to
compete with women is an absolute
 
 
compete with women is an absolute
 
 
compete with women is an absolute
mockery of everything that people have
 
 
mockery of everything that people have
 
 
mockery of everything that people have
done for us and as many have messages
 
 
done for us and as many have messages
 
 
done for us and as many have messages
for those in both houses and we want to
 
 
for those in both houses and we want to
 
 
for those in both houses and we want to
condemn the zealotry of the legislature
 
 
condemn the zealotry of the legislature
 
 
condemn the zealotry of the legislature
thank you for representing utah thank
 
 
thank you for representing utah thank
 
 
thank you for representing utah thank
you for listening to the voice of
 
 
you for listening to the voice of
 
 
you for listening to the voice of
parents the future of this issue is long
 
 
parents the future of this issue is long
 
 
parents the future of this issue is long
from over i hope the whole thing goes
 
 
from over i hope the whole thing goes
 
 
from over i hope the whole thing goes
away and we can sit down at the table
 
 
away and we can sit down at the table
 
 
away and we can sit down at the table
again and figure out a good path forward
 
 
again and figure out a good path forward
 
 
again and figure out a good path forward
that's affirming for all girls it's
 
 
that's affirming for all girls it's
 
 
that's affirming for all girls it's
really not a fair fight to have
 
 
really not a fair fight to have
 
 
really not a fair fight to have
biological males and biological females
 
 
biological males and biological females
 
 
biological males and biological females
competing in the same
 
 
competing in the same
 
 
competing in the same
place
 
 
 
 
and as this debate moves off of utah's
 
 
and as this debate moves off of utah's
 
 
and as this debate moves off of utah's
capitol hill continue to stick with fox
 
 
capitol hill continue to stick with fox
 
 
capitol hill continue to stick with fox
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
way from all sides of this argument as
 
 
way from all sides of this argument as
 
 
way from all sides of this argument as
it moves from here into the courts for
 
 
it moves from here into the courts for
 
 
it moves from here into the courts for
now live on utah's capitol hill spencer
 
 
now live on utah's capitol hill spencer
 
 
now live on utah's capitol hill spencer
joseph fox 13 news utah spencer thank
 
 
joseph fox 13 news utah spencer thank
 
 
joseph fox 13 news utah spencer thank
you salt lake city mayor aaron
 
 
you salt lake city mayor aaron
 
 
you salt lake city mayor aaron
mendenhall says the legislature's
 
 
mendenhall says the legislature's
 
 
mendenhall says the legislature's
override is not the utah way quote
 
 
override is not the utah way quote
 
 
override is not the utah way quote
unquote she says she's ashamed at the
 
 
unquote she says she's ashamed at the
 
 
unquote she says she's ashamed at the
way politics are being played with
 
 
way politics are being played with
 
 
way politics are being played with
children's lives salt lake county mayor
 
 
children's lives salt lake county mayor
 
 
children's lives salt lake county mayor
jenny wilson is also denouncing the veto
 
 
jenny wilson is also denouncing the veto
 
 
jenny wilson is also denouncing the veto
override she said the legislature to the
 
 
override she said the legislature to the
 
 
override she said the legislature to the
legislature your actions have sent a
 
 
legislature your actions have sent a
 
 
legislature your actions have sent a
signal at a crucial time that we are not
 
 
signal at a crucial time that we are not
 
 
signal at a crucial time that we are not
a welcoming community our country our
 
 
a welcoming community our country our
 
 
a welcoming community our country our
children and our state deserves better
 
 
children and our state deserves better
 
 
children and our state deserves better
the utah jazz organization issued a
 
 
the utah jazz organization issued a
 
 
the utah jazz organization issued a
statement calling house bill 11
 
 
statement calling house bill 11
 
 
statement calling house bill 11
discriminatory legislation the jazz went
 
 
discriminatory legislation the jazz went
 
 
discriminatory legislation the jazz went
on to quote to say
 
 
on to quote to say
 
 
on to quote to say
we are committed to our values of
 
 
we are committed to our values of
 
 
we are committed to our values of
inclusivity mutual respect and fair play
 
 
inclusivity mutual respect and fair play
 
 
inclusivity mutual respect and fair play
beyond basketball ball we hope for an
 
 
beyond basketball ball we hope for an
 
 
beyond basketball ball we hope for an
equitable solution that shows love and
 
 
equitable solution that shows love and
 
 
equitable solution that shows love and
compassion for all our youth dwyane wade
 
 
compassion for all our youth dwyane wade
 
 
compassion for all our youth dwyane wade
who is part owner of the jazz has a
 
 
who is part owner of the jazz has a
 
 
who is part owner of the jazz has a
daughter who is transgender

 
there is a warm is information and care

 
there is a warm is information and care

 
there is a warm is information and care
about what it means to be transgenderwet

 
about what it means to be transgenderwet

 
about what it means to be transgenderwet
recently sciences have apparently become more

 
recently sciences have apparently become more

 
recently sciences have apparently become more
closely in to neurology physiology

 
closely in to neurology physiology

 
closely in to neurology physiology
and psychology particularly
 
 
and psychology particularly
 
 
and psychology particularly
once breakdown wet science german
 
 
once breakdown wet science german
 
 
once breakdown wet science german
well and respectful and educational
 
 
well and respectful and educational
 
 
well and respectful and educational
hey guys omg keyword center here it
 
 
hey guys omg keyword center here it
 
 
hey guys omg keyword center here it
asap science to  break down side
 
 
asap science to  break down side
 
 
asap science to  break down side
being transgender the previous two typing
 
 
being transgender the previous two typing
 
 
being transgender the previous two typing
your app
 
 
your app
 
 
your app
who hateful ate your genetics for the
 
 
who hateful ate your genetics for the
 
 
who hateful ate your genetics for the
chromosomes jihadis become german
 
 
chromosomes jihadis become german
 
 
chromosomes jihadis become german
april 2 efficient
 
 
april 2 efficient
 
 
april 2 efficient
when m self and your father with chris an
 
 
when m self and your father with chris an
 
 
when m self and your father with chris an
ex oh my promise i'll
 
 
ex oh my promise i'll
 
 
ex oh my promise i'll
who is with that eye for your mother base
 
 
who is with that eye for your mother base
 
 
who is with that eye for your mother base
case and xcom
 
 
case and xcom
 
 
case and xcom
in which two luxor seven weeks after
 
 
in which two luxor seven weeks after
 
 
in which two luxor seven weeks after
fertilization botex by and xxx' embryos
 
 
fertilization botex by and xxx' embryos
 
 
fertilization botex by and xxx' embryos
graphite single comment
 
 
graphite single comment
 
 
graphite single comment
room seven weeks nl sex orgy started
 
 
room seven weeks nl sex orgy started
 
 
room seven weeks nl sex orgy started
well the curve jean under my promise and
 
 
well the curve jean under my promise and
 
 
well the curve jean under my promise and
cold and i scratches cells to become more
 
 
cold and i scratches cells to become more
 
 
cold and i scratches cells to become more
special list and die self-critical trust'
 
 
special list and die self-critical trust'
 
 
special list and die self-critical trust'
room  which in turn triggers the
 
 
room  which in turn triggers the
 
 
room  which in turn triggers the
development of structures light pinus in
 
 
development of structures light pinus in
 
 
development of structures light pinus in
score him water south park someone the
 
 
score him water south park someone the
 
 
score him water south park someone the
element by the gene  rating the female
 
 
element by the gene  rating the female
 
 
element by the gene  rating the female
touch'
 
 
touch'
 
 
touch'
oats in female development your crosshair
 
 
oats in female development your crosshair
 
 
oats in female development your crosshair
is noah van de Zomer tso high tea detox
 
 
is noah van de Zomer tso high tea detox
 
 
is noah van de Zomer tso high tea detox
c popular and the lawyer service
 
 
c popular and the lawyer service
 
 
c popular and the lawyer service
hairdresser de taino and covered with
 
 
hairdresser de taino and covered with
 
 
hairdresser de taino and covered with
estrogen and chemical piece to help
 
 
estrogen and chemical piece to help
 
 
estrogen and chemical piece to help
greeted by the early knee but once again
 
 
greeted by the early knee but once again
 
 
greeted by the early knee but once again
oh is that symbol dr arthur fancy fair
 
 
oh is that symbol dr arthur fancy fair
 
 
oh is that symbol dr arthur fancy fair
combinations like i sex porn
 
 
combinations like i sex porn
 
 
combinations like i sex porn
xxxxxxxxxx wai wai it centers and just
 
 
xxxxxxxxxx wai wai it centers and just
 
 
xxxxxxxxxx wai wai it centers and just
that political sex cam son said
 
 
that political sex cam son said
 
 
that political sex cam son said
while mail channels and care graphics
 
 
while mail channels and care graphics
 
 
while mail channels and care graphics
youtube pick on the bike hot summer
 
 
youtube pick on the bike hot summer
 
 
youtube pick on the bike hot summer
breaking up and switching places you and
 
 
breaking up and switching places you and
 
 
breaking up and switching places you and
excuse to
 
 
excuse to
 
 
excuse to
be sexual  differentiation in the brain
 
 
be sexual  differentiation in the brain
 
 
be sexual  differentiation in the brain
axel a gaping max leather d'ancona dolce
 
 
axel a gaping max leather d'ancona dolce
 
 
axel a gaping max leather d'ancona dolce
frenchie and josh aldogan drivers
 
 
frenchie and josh aldogan drivers
 
 
frenchie and josh aldogan drivers
email and vml brings her structural and
 
 
email and vml brings her structural and
 
 
email and vml brings her structural and
functional also is between each other
 
 
functional also is between each other
 
 
functional also is between each other
studies and fauna mels generally a larger
 
 
studies and fauna mels generally a larger
 
 
studies and fauna mels generally a larger
story bram cerebellum and i have a
 
 
story bram cerebellum and i have a
 
 
story bram cerebellum and i have a
ball females  a higher than 3 aerial
 
 
ball females  a higher than 3 aerial
 
 
ball females  a higher than 3 aerial
loops and larger walliams in the rai
 
 
loops and larger walliams in the rai
 
 
loops and larger walliams in the rai
randbouw
 
 
randbouw
 
 
randbouw
so know i saw medic family green
 
 
so know i saw medic family green
 
 
so know i saw medic family green
at least different process
 
 
at least different process
 
 
at least different process
several studies you after  ar transgender
 
 
several studies you after  ar transgender
 
 
several studies you after  ar transgender
brings a message charlie en
 
 
brings a message charlie en
 
 
brings a message charlie en
patchouli more similar to their
 
 
patchouli more similar to their
 
 
patchouli more similar to their
experience
 
 
experience
 
 
experience
generate and i en er biological thanks
 
 
generate and i en er biological thanks
 
 
generate and i en er biological thanks
once or the furniture and swim in your
 
 
once or the furniture and swim in your
 
 
once or the furniture and swim in your
thein mee leopard had
 
 
thein mee leopard had
 
 
thein mee leopard had
smaller female size structure in the
 
 
smaller female size structure in the
 
 
smaller female size structure in the
high pay with
 
 
high pay with
 
 
high pay with
en mais qui jenson sochaux de  industry
 
 
en mais qui jenson sochaux de  industry
 
 
en mais qui jenson sochaux de  industry
actors on trains people to be more
 
 
actors on trains people to be more
 
 
actors on trains people to be more
similar in technical dirk spears gender
 
 
similar in technical dirk spears gender
 
 
similar in technical dirk spears gender
and wetter sex family the firm and
 
 
and wetter sex family the firm and
 
 
and wetter sex family the firm and
thresher that is never class jeff got
 
 
thresher that is never class jeff got
 
 
thresher that is never class jeff got
paid i response is in flour and
 
 
paid i response is in flour and
 
 
paid i response is in flour and
pecker prince and my individual
 
 
pecker prince and my individual
 
 
pecker prince and my individual
gender dysphoria you become me s'pose you know
 
 
gender dysphoria you become me s'pose you know
 
 
gender dysphoria you become me s'pose you know
that he pay with response and apps
 
 
that he pay with response and apps
 
 
that he pay with response and apps
depression gender foreigners at the
 
 
depression gender foreigners at the
 
 
depression gender foreigners at the
story he kicked body escalation of
 
 
story he kicked body escalation of
 
 
story he kicked body escalation of
feminization app icon just once after o is
 
 
feminization app icon just once after o is
 
 
feminization app icon just once after o is
the bring together and that first
 
 
the bring together and that first
 
 
the bring together and that first
jeffrey swinger sex or jorna de mie and
 
 
jeffrey swinger sex or jorna de mie and
 
 
jeffrey swinger sex or jorna de mie and
gender o'reilly exactly why buddy's
 
 
gender o'reilly exactly why buddy's
 
 
gender o'reilly exactly why buddy's
barrow cnsi  be a genetic components
 
 
barrow cnsi  be a genetic components
 
 
barrow cnsi  be a genetic components
james yeah right and the walking and
 
 
james yeah right and the walking and
 
 
james yeah right and the walking and
family history is gender ardennes die
 
 
family history is gender ardennes die
 
 
family history is gender ardennes die
incongruence a star of a the
 
 
incongruence a star of a the
 
 
incongruence a star of a the
fam  ilie meaning the may be heard in the
 
 
fam  ilie meaning the may be heard in the
 
 
fam  ilie meaning the may be heard in the
silo nike 1710 which controls the buddy's
 
 
silo nike 1710 which controls the buddy's
 
 
silo nike 1710 which controls the buddy's
label of sex hormones he is a sad
 
 
label of sex hormones he is a sad
 
 
label of sex hormones he is a sad
lyon that is expressed frequently and
 
 
lyon that is expressed frequently and
 
 
lyon that is expressed frequently and
transmit of gay research area on-site
 
 
transmit of gay research area on-site
 
 
transmit of gay research area on-site
your kind reasonable just over three million
 
 
your kind reasonable just over three million
 
 
your kind reasonable just over three million
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and genetic link deserves
 
 
and genetic link deserves
 
 
and genetic link deserves
to mop up in french i dunno scientific stadium did
 
 
to mop up in french i dunno scientific stadium did
 
 
to mop up in french i dunno scientific stadium did
experience a transgender people
 
 
experience a transgender people
 
 
experience a transgender people
recovery suffering kill passion and
 
 
recovery suffering kill passion and
 
 
recovery suffering kill passion and
anxiety general public tourists
 
 
anxiety general public tourists
 
 
anxiety general public tourists
suicide is more prominent in transgender
 
 
suicide is more prominent in transgender
 
 
suicide is more prominent in transgender
people we been rejected by their family
 
 
people we been rejected by their family
 
 
people we been rejected by their family
discriminate in wordpress hear a lot of
 
 
discriminate in wordpress hear a lot of
 
 
discriminate in wordpress hear a lot of
care suicide rest seemed to  decrease
 
 
care suicide rest seemed to  decrease
 
 
care suicide rest seemed to  decrease
over gender 20 and a
 
 
over gender 20 and a
 
 
over gender 20 and a
suggesting with gender dysphoria you could
 
 
suggesting with gender dysphoria you could
 
 
suggesting with gender dysphoria you could
be in extreme and my
 
 
be in extreme and my
 
 
be in extreme and my
emotional no you are in place your
 
 
emotional no you are in place your
 
 
emotional no you are in place your
site review and family member or friend
 
 
site review and family member or friend
 
 
site review and family member or friend
is frank of gender dysphoria yes the review
 
 
is frank of gender dysphoria yes the review
 
 
is frank of gender dysphoria yes the review
winx in the description for more
 
 
winx in the description for more
 
 
winx in the description for more
information that you some of the  deep
 
 
information that you some of the  deep
 
 
information that you some of the  deep
green parties video in saudi arabia
 
 
green parties video in saudi arabia
 
 
green parties video in saudi arabia
you all think die for using
 
 
you all think die for using
 
 
you all think die for using
your channel your platform bell ring twin
 
 
your channel your platform bell ring twin
 
 
your channel your platform bell ring twin
standards agency science
 
 
standards agency science
 
 
standards agency science
with francisco tripoli absolutely money
 
 
with francisco tripoli absolutely money
 
 
with francisco tripoli absolutely money
check out the chain or on the link in the
 
 
check out the chain or on the link in the
 
 
check out the chain or on the link in the
description to our region where i like
 
 
description to our region where i like
 
 
description to our region where i like
and subscribe for more science here and
 
 
and subscribe for more science here and
 
 
and subscribe for more science here and
week and massage nexttime

 
it's a seam you'll encounter in any

 
it's a seam you'll encounter in any

 
it's a seam you'll encounter in any
happy family home around the world

 

 
robbers taking great delight in outdoing

 
robbers taking great delight in outdoing

 
robbers taking great delight in outdoing
their sisters but in this family things

 
their sisters but in this family things

 
their sisters but in this family things
a difference the baby girl of the family
 
 
a difference the baby girl of the family
 
 
a difference the baby girl of the family
eight-year-old jazz but first I thought
 
 
eight-year-old jazz but first I thought
 
 
eight-year-old jazz but first I thought
oh how cute you know he wants to play
 
 
oh how cute you know he wants to play
 
 
oh how cute you know he wants to play
with the doll who cares you know we're
 
 
with the doll who cares you know we're
 
 
with the doll who cares you know we're
really open-minded but when it continued
 
 
really open-minded but when it continued
 
 
really open-minded but when it continued
on month after month and became year
 
 
on month after month and became year
 
 
on month after month and became year
after year and it became stronger I knew
 
 
after year and it became stronger I knew
 
 
after year and it became stronger I knew
you know this wasn't a phase it's
 
 
you know this wasn't a phase it's
 
 
you know this wasn't a phase it's
getting more intense Scott and Renee had
 
 
getting more intense Scott and Renee had
 
 
getting more intense Scott and Renee had
their fourth child
 
 
their fourth child
 
 
their fourth child
very early they will be wounded by the
 
 
very early they will be wounded by the
 
 
very early they will be wounded by the
way they knew when a two-year-old comes
 
 
way they knew when a two-year-old comes
 
 
way they knew when a two-year-old comes
up to and says mommy when is the Good
 
 
up to and says mommy when is the Good
 
 
up to and says mommy when is the Good
Fairy gonna come with her magic wand and
 
 
Fairy gonna come with her magic wand and
 
 
Fairy gonna come with her magic wand and
change my penis into a vagina you're
 
 
change my penis into a vagina you're
 
 
change my penis into a vagina you're
like okay this is not typical this is
 
 
like okay this is not typical this is
 
 
like okay this is not typical this is
not something a normal child would do
 
 
 
 
can you remember the first time you
 
 
can you remember the first time you
 
 
can you remember the first time you
thought I want to be a girl when I was
 
 
thought I want to be a girl when I was
 
 
thought I want to be a girl when I was
two I would say I want to wear a dress
 
 
two I would say I want to wear a dress
 
 
two I would say I want to wear a dress
no we say I want to play with the
 
 
no we say I want to play with the
 
 
no we say I want to play with the
Barbies very earlier if she thought
 
 
Barbies very earlier if she thought
 
 
Barbies very earlier if she thought
that's what you wanted to be yeah she
 
 
that's what you wanted to be yeah she
 
 
that's what you wanted to be yeah she
was quite adamant about what her belief
 
 
was quite adamant about what her belief
 
 
was quite adamant about what her belief
was that she was a girl and initially I
 
 
was that she was a girl and initially I
 
 
was that she was a girl and initially I
know from my own perspective I was in in
 
 
know from my own perspective I was in in
 
 
know from my own perspective I was in in
denial
 
 
 
 
despite their reservations Scott and
 
 
despite their reservations Scott and
 
 
despite their reservations Scott and
Renee have made the courageous decision
 
 
Renee have made the courageous decision
 
 
Renee have made the courageous decision
to let their son move as a girl it was
 
 
to let their son move as a girl it was
 
 
to let their son move as a girl it was
difficult for us but at the same time we
 
 
difficult for us but at the same time we
 
 
difficult for us but at the same time we
knew that that was the right thing for
 
 
knew that that was the right thing for
 
 
knew that that was the right thing for
our child whether Society was going to
 
 
our child whether Society was going to
 
 
our child whether Society was going to
accept it or not you've got a beautiful
 
 
accept it or not you've got a beautiful
 
 
accept it or not you've got a beautiful
dress on did you select this um it was
 
 
dress on did you select this um it was
 
 
dress on did you select this um it was
with me and my mom yeah like she's like
 
 
with me and my mom yeah like she's like
 
 
with me and my mom yeah like she's like
oh hell you wear that dress but it's a
 
 
oh hell you wear that dress but it's a
 
 
oh hell you wear that dress but it's a
nice dress so you're not dressing up
 
 
nice dress so you're not dressing up
 
 
nice dress so you're not dressing up
clean yes and you love earrings hearts
 
 
clean yes and you love earrings hearts
 
 
clean yes and you love earrings hearts
beautiful yeah we've all been dancing it
 
 
beautiful yeah we've all been dancing it
 
 
beautiful yeah we've all been dancing it
jazz is what's known as a transgender
 
 
jazz is what's known as a transgender
 
 
jazz is what's known as a transgender
child in her case born a boy with normal
 
 
child in her case born a boy with normal
 
 
child in her case born a boy with normal
male genitals but an unmistakably female
 
 
male genitals but an unmistakably female
 
 
male genitals but an unmistakably female
brain
 
 
brain
 
 
brain
do you know that you're a special yes
 
 
do you know that you're a special yes
 
 
do you know that you're a special yes
and and why is that because I have a
 
 
and and why is that because I have a
 
 
and and why is that because I have a
girl brain and a boy body and how do you
 
 
girl brain and a boy body and how do you
 
 
girl brain and a boy body and how do you
feel about that um I feel fine like it's
 
 
feel about that um I feel fine like it's
 
 
feel about that um I feel fine like it's
okay thing it's like a normal life to me
 
 
okay thing it's like a normal life to me
 
 
okay thing it's like a normal life to me
pretty much cuz if people are like
 
 
pretty much cuz if people are like
 
 
pretty much cuz if people are like
making fun of you just walk away and be
 
 
making fun of you just walk away and be
 
 
making fun of you just walk away and be
friends with people that are nice to you
 
 
friends with people that are nice to you
 
 
friends with people that are nice to you
and I appreciate you okay her bedroom is
 
 
and I appreciate you okay her bedroom is
 
 
and I appreciate you okay her bedroom is
like what you would expect of any little
 
 
like what you would expect of any little
 
 
like what you would expect of any little
girl and her interest like most except
 
 
girl and her interest like most except
 
 
girl and her interest like most except
perhaps her passion for mermaids why do
 
 
perhaps her passion for mermaids why do
 
 
perhaps her passion for mermaids why do
you love me medicine it's because I
 
 
you love me medicine it's because I
 
 
you love me medicine it's because I
don't have to worry what's around like
 
 
don't have to worry what's around like
 
 
don't have to worry what's around like
the private area okay so yes it's the
 
 
the private area okay so yes it's the
 
 
the private area okay so yes it's the
mermaid could be anybody
 
 
mermaid could be anybody
 
 
mermaid could be anybody
yeah okay when I asked children to draw
 
 
yeah okay when I asked children to draw
 
 
yeah okay when I asked children to draw
a picture of themself draw a picture of
 
 
a picture of themself draw a picture of
 
 
a picture of themself draw a picture of
what they liked and many many trans
 
 
what they liked and many many trans
 
 
what they liked and many many trans
children will draw mermaids
 
 
children will draw mermaids
 
 
children will draw mermaids
they have tails they have no genitalia
 
 
they have tails they have no genitalia
 
 
they have tails they have no genitalia
they can be beautiful and pretty and you
 
 
they can be beautiful and pretty and you
 
 
they can be beautiful and pretty and you
can put sparkly things on them dr.
 
 
can put sparkly things on them dr.
 
 
can put sparkly things on them dr.
Marilyn volca is a therapist who
 
 
Marilyn volca is a therapist who
 
 
Marilyn volca is a therapist who
specializes in sex and gender issues
 
 
specializes in sex and gender issues
 
 
specializes in sex and gender issues
what is gender identity disorder how do
 
 
what is gender identity disorder how do
 
 
what is gender identity disorder how do
you explain that
 
 
you explain that
 
 
you explain that
it's literally where the biology between
 
 
it's literally where the biology between
 
 
it's literally where the biology between
the legs does not match the gender
 
 
the legs does not match the gender
 
 
the legs does not match the gender
identity between the ears
 
 
identity between the ears
 
 
identity between the ears
what color that clues we don't know how
 
 
what color that clues we don't know how
 
 
what color that clues we don't know how
many transgendered children exist but
 
 
many transgendered children exist but
 
 
many transgendered children exist but
chances are there could be hundreds in
 
 
chances are there could be hundreds in
 
 
chances are there could be hundreds in
Australia this was a pretty color change
 
 
Australia this was a pretty color change
 
 
Australia this was a pretty color change
around the world gender identity
 
 
around the world gender identity
 
 
around the world gender identity
disorder is becoming more recognized I
 
 
disorder is becoming more recognized I
 
 
disorder is becoming more recognized I
always knew it you know when Austin did
 
 
always knew it you know when Austin did
 
 
always knew it you know when Austin did
a kid I was always wanting pink dresses
 
 
a kid I was always wanting pink dresses
 
 
a kid I was always wanting pink dresses
Barbie everything so um you know I've
 
 
Barbie everything so um you know I've
 
 
Barbie everything so um you know I've
never really lived as a boy I've always
 
 
never really lived as a boy I've always
 
 
never really lived as a boy I've always
wanted to live as a girl so I really
 
 
wanted to live as a girl so I really
 
 
wanted to live as a girl so I really
knew exactly who I was in Germany last
 
 
knew exactly who I was in Germany last
 
 
knew exactly who I was in Germany last
year 16 year old Kim Petraeus who was
 
 
year 16 year old Kim Petraeus who was
 
 
year 16 year old Kim Petraeus who was
born a boy it became the youngest person
 
 
born a boy it became the youngest person
 
 
born a boy it became the youngest person
ever to have sex change surgery I got
 
 
ever to have sex change surgery I got
 
 
ever to have sex change surgery I got
the Roo event because I saw I had so
 
 
the Roo event because I saw I had so
 
 
the Roo event because I saw I had so
many psychologists in the end who said
 
 
many psychologists in the end who said
 
 
many psychologists in the end who said
that from or two years would be not be
 
 
that from or two years would be not be
 
 
that from or two years would be not be
good for me to wait for the surgery Kim
 
 
good for me to wait for the surgery Kim
 
 
good for me to wait for the surgery Kim
was born him like many transgender
 
 
was born him like many transgender
 
 
was born him like many transgender
children Kim began taking hormones at
 
 
children Kim began taking hormones at
 
 
children Kim began taking hormones at
the age of 12 to ward off the cruel
 
 
the age of 12 to ward off the cruel
 
 
the age of 12 to ward off the cruel
effects of puberty every day I woke up
 
 
effects of puberty every day I woke up
 
 
effects of puberty every day I woke up
and I was scared to have the lower voice
 
 
and I was scared to have the lower voice
 
 
and I was scared to have the lower voice
or suddenly have a beard or anything
 
 
or suddenly have a beard or anything
 
 
or suddenly have a beard or anything
Adam's apple or something so I was
 
 
Adam's apple or something so I was
 
 
Adam's apple or something so I was
really so happy when I got the hormones
 
 
really so happy when I got the hormones
 
 
really so happy when I got the hormones
and that's what I've always wanted to
 
 
and that's what I've always wanted to
 
 
and that's what I've always wanted to
feel like
 
 
feel like
 
 
feel like
[Applause]
 
 
[Applause]
 
 
[Applause]
the experts say that for these children
 
 
the experts say that for these children
 
 
the experts say that for these children
the sooner they begin the transition the
 
 
the sooner they begin the transition the
 
 
the sooner they begin the transition the
better what are you wearing in a Jazz's
 
 
better what are you wearing in a Jazz's
 
 
better what are you wearing in a Jazz's
case that happened at an extraordinarily
 
 
case that happened at an extraordinarily
 
 
case that happened at an extraordinarily
young age and what struck you about jazz
 
 
young age and what struck you about jazz
 
 
young age and what struck you about jazz
ah first of all an extraordinary spirit
 
 
ah first of all an extraordinary spirit
 
 
ah first of all an extraordinary spirit
you're already ready for bed look at you
 
 
you're already ready for bed look at you
 
 
you're already ready for bed look at you
when dr. Volker first saw jazz she was
 
 
when dr. Volker first saw jazz she was
 
 
when dr. Volker first saw jazz she was
just three we use pictures and
 
 
just three we use pictures and
 
 
just three we use pictures and
anatomical dolls jazz looked at the
 
 
anatomical dolls jazz looked at the
 
 
anatomical dolls jazz looked at the
penis and scrotum looked at the vagina
 
 
penis and scrotum looked at the vagina
 
 
penis and scrotum looked at the vagina
and said when I'm fifth the Good Fairy
 
 
and said when I'm fifth the Good Fairy
 
 
and said when I'm fifth the Good Fairy
is going to bring me a bagina and I
 
 
is going to bring me a bagina and I
 
 
is going to bring me a bagina and I
don't look at a child and say Oh
 
 
don't look at a child and say Oh
 
 
don't look at a child and say Oh
transgender I asked them why they would
 
 
transgender I asked them why they would
 
 
transgender I asked them why they would
want a vagina it would to just say
 
 
want a vagina it would to just say
 
 
want a vagina it would to just say
because I'm a girl
 
 
 
 
every jazz was probably the youngest
 
 
every jazz was probably the youngest
 
 
every jazz was probably the youngest
ever child to be diagnosed as
 
 
ever child to be diagnosed as
 
 
ever child to be diagnosed as
transgender you don't mind that you have
 
 
transgender you don't mind that you have
 
 
transgender you don't mind that you have
the the girl
 
 
the the girl
 
 
the the girl
brain and the boy body yeah I don't care
 
 
brain and the boy body yeah I don't care
 
 
brain and the boy body yeah I don't care
I still like live the life like a girl
 
 
I still like live the life like a girl
 
 
I still like live the life like a girl
it's not any different what do you like
 
 
it's not any different what do you like
 
 
it's not any different what do you like
about being the girl um like it's fun
 
 
about being the girl um like it's fun
 
 
about being the girl um like it's fun
you get to do all like makeovers how
 
 
you get to do all like makeovers how
 
 
you get to do all like makeovers how
about
 
 
about
 
 
about
yeah they must have been a point at
 
 
yeah they must have been a point at
 
 
yeah they must have been a point at
where you were resisting almost trying
 
 
where you were resisting almost trying
 
 
where you were resisting almost trying
to change what jazz was doing yeah and I
 
 
to change what jazz was doing yeah and I
 
 
to change what jazz was doing yeah and I
thought if it is a passing phase it will
 
 
thought if it is a passing phase it will
 
 
thought if it is a passing phase it will
pass
 
 
pass
 
 
pass
Scott was a little bit more resistant he
 
 
Scott was a little bit more resistant he
 
 
Scott was a little bit more resistant he
was you know at first like was not as
 
 
was you know at first like was not as
 
 
was you know at first like was not as
cool about it well I guess that most
 
 
cool about it well I guess that most
 
 
cool about it well I guess that most
most dads would probably find this
 
 
most dads would probably find this
 
 
most dads would probably find this
difficult yeah it was difficult I wanted
 
 
difficult yeah it was difficult I wanted
 
 
difficult yeah it was difficult I wanted
to try and have jazz do more things that
 
 
to try and have jazz do more things that
 
 
to try and have jazz do more things that
were intuitively boy you make a nice
 
 
were intuitively boy you make a nice
 
 
were intuitively boy you make a nice
nose do you remember what it was like
 
 
nose do you remember what it was like
 
 
nose do you remember what it was like
when you were a little boy at all
 
 
when you were a little boy at all
 
 
when you were a little boy at all
I remember that no one knew that I had a
 
 
I remember that no one knew that I had a
 
 
I remember that no one knew that I had a
girlfriend I remember that I was not
 
 
girlfriend I remember that I was not
 
 
girlfriend I remember that I was not
happy with the clothes I had to wear and
 
 
happy with the clothes I had to wear and
 
 
happy with the clothes I had to wear and
with short hair and your first hair
 
 
with short hair and your first hair
 
 
with short hair and your first hair
so handsome and when I was two I when I
 
 
so handsome and when I was two I when I
 
 
so handsome and when I was two I when I
was a little boy I remember my parents
 
 
was a little boy I remember my parents
 
 
was a little boy I remember my parents
changed my overalls to like a little
 
 
changed my overalls to like a little
 
 
changed my overalls to like a little
dress do you remember how you felt when
 
 
dress do you remember how you felt when
 
 
dress do you remember how you felt when
you were allowed to wear a dress I was
 
 
you were allowed to wear a dress I was
 
 
you were allowed to wear a dress I was
very happy like right now yeah at first
 
 
very happy like right now yeah at first
 
 
very happy like right now yeah at first
Jazz's preschool wouldn't let her dress
 
 
Jazz's preschool wouldn't let her dress
 
 
Jazz's preschool wouldn't let her dress
as a girl at one dance recital she
 
 
as a girl at one dance recital she
 
 
as a girl at one dance recital she
wasn't allowed to wear a tutu like the
 
 
wasn't allowed to wear a tutu like the
 
 
wasn't allowed to wear a tutu like the
rest of the girls and was heartbroken
 
 
rest of the girls and was heartbroken
 
 
rest of the girls and was heartbroken
for their parents it was a to me do you
 
 
for their parents it was a to me do you
 
 
for their parents it was a to me do you
recall the day that you you as parents
 
 
recall the day that you you as parents
 
 
recall the day that you you as parents
had to sit down and say okay our boy
 
 
had to sit down and say okay our boy
 
 
had to sit down and say okay our boy
from this day on is going to be a girl
 
 
from this day on is going to be a girl
 
 
from this day on is going to be a girl
by the time she was in her last year of
 
 
by the time she was in her last year of
 
 
by the time she was in her last year of
preschool it became very obvious that we
 
 
preschool it became very obvious that we
 
 
preschool it became very obvious that we
weren't going to be able to keep this
 
 
weren't going to be able to keep this
 
 
weren't going to be able to keep this
under the rug much longer it it was the
 
 
under the rug much longer it it was the
 
 
under the rug much longer it it was the
fifth birthday party where she was
 
 
fifth birthday party where she was
 
 
fifth birthday party where she was
allowed to wear a girl bathing suit and
 
 
allowed to wear a girl bathing suit and
 
 
allowed to wear a girl bathing suit and
we had 60 70 kids here and they all saw
 
 
we had 60 70 kids here and they all saw
 
 
we had 60 70 kids here and they all saw
her who was known as him at the time in
 
 
her who was known as him at the time in
 
 
her who was known as him at the time in
this girl bathing suit he was really her
 
 
this girl bathing suit he was really her
 
 
this girl bathing suit he was really her
coming out where she said to the world
 
 
coming out where she said to the world
 
 
coming out where she said to the world
I'm a girl come on jazz
 
 
I'm a girl come on jazz
 
 
I'm a girl come on jazz
 
 
 
 
from those early years jazz was never
 
 
from those early years jazz was never
 
 
from those early years jazz was never
happy unless she was treated as a girl
 
 
happy unless she was treated as a girl
 
 
happy unless she was treated as a girl
you want your ears pierced who needs a
 
 
you want your ears pierced who needs a
 
 
you want your ears pierced who needs a
drink and two twin brothers and older
 
 
drink and two twin brothers and older
 
 
drink and two twin brothers and older
sister are very accepting their
 
 
sister are very accepting their
 
 
sister are very accepting their
understanding that they'll have a sister
 
 
understanding that they'll have a sister
 
 
understanding that they'll have a sister
alright can you give me something I'm
 
 
alright can you give me something I'm
 
 
alright can you give me something I'm
happy that she's a girl cuz that's what
 
 
happy that she's a girl cuz that's what
 
 
happy that she's a girl cuz that's what
she wants to be
 
 
she wants to be
 
 
she wants to be
are you protective objects yes
 
 
are you protective objects yes
 
 
are you protective objects yes
definitely because I've seen movies
 
 
definitely because I've seen movies
 
 
definitely because I've seen movies
where people like her have been in like
 
 
where people like her have been in like
 
 
where people like her have been in like
very bad situations and they've been
 
 
very bad situations and they've been
 
 
very bad situations and they've been
like hurt and I don't want that to
 
 
like hurt and I don't want that to
 
 
like hurt and I don't want that to
happen her and if they were to if
 
 
happen her and if they were to if
 
 
happen her and if they were to if
somebody said something unkind to jazz
 
 
somebody said something unkind to jazz
 
 
somebody said something unkind to jazz
what would you say
 
 
what would you say
 
 
what would you say
I tell them just don't talk about that
 
 
I tell them just don't talk about that
 
 
I tell them just don't talk about that
stuff and its tyr's to know about not
 
 
stuff and its tyr's to know about not
 
 
stuff and its tyr's to know about not
theirs because they want to live their
 
 
theirs because they want to live their
 
 
theirs because they want to live their
own life just like everybody else does
 
 
own life just like everybody else does
 
 
own life just like everybody else does
and they're the same kind of people as
 
 
and they're the same kind of people as
 
 
and they're the same kind of people as
you are they live the same kind of life
 
 
you are they live the same kind of life
 
 
you are they live the same kind of life
unless you make it hard on them hmm for
 
 
unless you make it hard on them hmm for
 
 
unless you make it hard on them hmm for
a transgender child and their families
 
 
a transgender child and their families
 
 
a transgender child and their families
life throws up some serious and
 
 
life throws up some serious and
 
 
life throws up some serious and
complicated issues jazz has not yet had
 
 
complicated issues jazz has not yet had
 
 
complicated issues jazz has not yet had
hormone treatment or gender reassignment
 
 
hormone treatment or gender reassignment
 
 
hormone treatment or gender reassignment
surgery those decisions are all ahead of
 
 
surgery those decisions are all ahead of
 
 
surgery those decisions are all ahead of
her
 
 
her
 
 
her
she's got a rough road ahead of her
 
 
she's got a rough road ahead of her
 
 
she's got a rough road ahead of her
there's no doubt and you know I know
 
 
there's no doubt and you know I know
 
 
there's no doubt and you know I know
there's a lot of pain around the corner
 
 
there's a lot of pain around the corner
 
 
there's a lot of pain around the corner
and puberty is still looming out there
 
 
and puberty is still looming out there
 
 
and puberty is still looming out there
and she's still a little which is great
 
 
and she's still a little which is great
 
 
and she's still a little which is great
but I know you know eventually the her
 
 
but I know you know eventually the her
 
 
but I know you know eventually the her
body will betray her
 
 
body will betray her
 
 
body will betray her
yeah we've tried to build as much
 
 
yeah we've tried to build as much
 
 
yeah we've tried to build as much
self-esteem as possible going into those
 
 
self-esteem as possible going into those
 
 
self-esteem as possible going into those
future years where we know it it could
 
 
future years where we know it it could
 
 
future years where we know it it could
be difficult what do you think you'd
 
 
be difficult what do you think you'd
 
 
be difficult what do you think you'd
like to be when you grow up a soccer
 
 
like to be when you grow up a soccer
 
 
like to be when you grow up a soccer
player and actors and urine dancer I I
 
 
player and actors and urine dancer I I
 
 
player and actors and urine dancer I I
like to draw too so it may be an artist
 
 
like to draw too so it may be an artist
 
 
like to draw too so it may be an artist
a lot of things well this one for me
 
 
a lot of things well this one for me
 
 
a lot of things well this one for me
that's getting it purple today these are
 
 
that's getting it purple today these are
 
 
that's getting it purple today these are
loving and courageous parents doing what
 
 
loving and courageous parents doing what
 
 
loving and courageous parents doing what
they believe is best for their child in
 
 
they believe is best for their child in
 
 
they believe is best for their child in
the country that is still deeply
 
 
the country that is still deeply
 
 
the country that is still deeply
conservative at heart I get some
 
 
conservative at heart I get some
 
 
conservative at heart I get some
terrible emails people that basically
 
 
terrible emails people that basically
 
 
terrible emails people that basically
say that I am the worst parent I am evil
 
 
say that I am the worst parent I am evil
 
 
say that I am the worst parent I am evil
I should be killed my child should be
 
 
I should be killed my child should be
 
 
I should be killed my child should be
killed type a parent and I and your kids
 
 
killed type a parent and I and your kids
 
 
killed type a parent and I and your kids
a freak and we feel like if you you know
 
 
a freak and we feel like if you you know
 
 
a freak and we feel like if you you know
by allowing you into our home into our
 
 
by allowing you into our home into our
 
 
by allowing you into our home into our
lives and essentially the world into our
 
 
lives and essentially the world into our
 
 
lives and essentially the world into our
lives and seeing jazz in her environment
 
 
lives and seeing jazz in her environment
 
 
lives and seeing jazz in her environment
doing the things that she does on a
 
 
doing the things that she does on a
 
 
doing the things that she does on a
daily basis it'll open people's hearts
 
 
daily basis it'll open people's hearts
 
 
daily basis it'll open people's hearts
and understanding and it could make the
 
 
and understanding and it could make the
 
 
and understanding and it could make the
world a better place we want to touch
 
 
world a better place we want to touch
 
 
world a better place we want to touch
down where where
 
 
 
 
smile it is a complicated and difficult
 
 
smile it is a complicated and difficult
 
 
smile it is a complicated and difficult
issue but for jazz it's very simple what
 
 
issue but for jazz it's very simple what
 
 
issue but for jazz it's very simple what
is your message to other children who
 
 
is your message to other children who
 
 
is your message to other children who
might feel trapped in the wrong body um
 
 
might feel trapped in the wrong body um
 
 
might feel trapped in the wrong body um
I would say don't be afraid just go tell
 
 
I would say don't be afraid just go tell
 
 
I would say don't be afraid just go tell
their parents and then you'll be happy
 
 
their parents and then you'll be happy
 
 
their parents and then you'll be happy
like you'll like who you are after that
 
 
like you'll like who you are after that
 
 
like you'll like who you are after that
so you have to be true to yourself to be
 
 
so you have to be true to yourself to be
 
 
so you have to be true to yourself to be
happy I guess yeah hello I'm Liz Hayes
 
 
happy I guess yeah hello I'm Liz Hayes
 
 
happy I guess yeah hello I'm Liz Hayes
thanks for watching to keep up with the
 
 
thanks for watching to keep up with the
 
 
thanks for watching to keep up with the
latest from 60 minutes Australia make
 
 
latest from 60 minutes Australia make
 
 
latest from 60 minutes Australia make
sure you subscribe to our channel you
 
 
sure you subscribe to our channel you
 
 
sure you subscribe to our channel you
can also download the 9 now app for full
 
 
can also download the 9 now app for full
 
 
can also download the 9 now app for full
episodes and other exclusives 60 minutes
 
 
episodes and other exclusives 60 minutes
 
 
episodes and other exclusives 60 minutes
content

 
I just didn't feel right who I was I

 

 
really thought my in the right body

 
really thought my in the right body

 
really thought my in the right body

 

 
the first time I realized was when she

 
the first time I realized was when she

 
the first time I realized was when she
wanted to go out I went to wear a skirt
 
 
wanted to go out I went to wear a skirt
 
 
wanted to go out I went to wear a skirt
and I want to wear frilly top I want you
 
 
and I want to wear frilly top I want you
 
 
and I want to wear frilly top I want you
to call me her I didn't like boobs I
 
 
to call me her I didn't like boobs I
 
 
to call me her I didn't like boobs I
thought that they would be disgusting on
 
 
thought that they would be disgusting on
 
 
thought that they would be disgusting on
me
 
 
me
 
 
me
and I still have that opinion
 
 
 
 
I didn't want my period no no no that
 
 
I didn't want my period no no no that
 
 
I didn't want my period no no no that
would just be terrible for me I would
 
 
would just be terrible for me I would
 
 
would just be terrible for me I would
rather have facial hair and chest hair
 
 
rather have facial hair and chest hair
 
 
rather have facial hair and chest hair
and muscles I just rather not have boobs
 
 
 
 
I definitely think I was born transient
 
 
I definitely think I was born transient
 
 
I definitely think I was born transient
or I think that's how transgenderism
 
 
or I think that's how transgenderism
 
 
or I think that's how transgenderism
works I don't think it's something that
 
 
works I don't think it's something that
 
 
works I don't think it's something that
you decide to do where you just stumble
 
 
you decide to do where you just stumble
 
 
you decide to do where you just stumble
upon it's just who you are
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
so there's nothing new about trans lives
 
 
so there's nothing new about trans lives
 
 
so there's nothing new about trans lives
trans people are everywhere we always
 
 
trans people are everywhere we always
 
 
trans people are everywhere we always
were and it's perfectly natural to be
 
 
were and it's perfectly natural to be
 
 
were and it's perfectly natural to be
trans it's just one of the ways life
 
 
trans it's just one of the ways life
 
 
trans it's just one of the ways life
works on this planet
 
 
 
 
we're very devoted to a very simple set
 
 
we're very devoted to a very simple set
 
 
we're very devoted to a very simple set
of ideas there are two genders and only
 
 
of ideas there are two genders and only
 
 
of ideas there are two genders and only
two genders and they are so different
 
 
two genders and they are so different
 
 
two genders and they are so different
from each other that we can call them
 
 
from each other that we can call them
 
 
from each other that we can call them
opposite we talk about the opposite sex
 
 
opposite we talk about the opposite sex
 
 
opposite we talk about the opposite sex
this has very little to do with human
 
 
this has very little to do with human
 
 
this has very little to do with human
reality there are animals in which
 
 
reality there are animals in which
 
 
reality there are animals in which
females are dramatically different from
 
 
females are dramatically different from
 
 
females are dramatically different from
males we are not one of those take a
 
 
males we are not one of those take a
 
 
males we are not one of those take a
deep breath the problem is we create
 
 
deep breath the problem is we create
 
 
deep breath the problem is we create
this idea of rigid gender stereotypes
 
 
this idea of rigid gender stereotypes
 
 
this idea of rigid gender stereotypes
and our whole purpose in life is to
 
 
and our whole purpose in life is to
 
 
and our whole purpose in life is to
essentially live those stereotypes for
 
 
essentially live those stereotypes for
 
 
essentially live those stereotypes for
the vast majority of people it works it
 
 
the vast majority of people it works it
 
 
the vast majority of people it works it
does but for a lot of people it doesn't
 
 
does but for a lot of people it doesn't
 
 
does but for a lot of people it doesn't
and more people than you think it really
 
 
and more people than you think it really
 
 
and more people than you think it really
doesn't work we are assigned gender and
 
 
doesn't work we are assigned gender and
 
 
doesn't work we are assigned gender and
gender expectation when we're born but
 
 
gender expectation when we're born but
 
 
gender expectation when we're born but
sometimes that gender assignment doesn't
 
 
sometimes that gender assignment doesn't
 
 
sometimes that gender assignment doesn't
match the transgender movement is like
 
 
match the transgender movement is like
 
 
match the transgender movement is like
it's challenging the most basic thing
 
 
it's challenging the most basic thing
 
 
it's challenging the most basic thing
that we've been led to believe as a
 
 
that we've been led to believe as a
 
 
that we've been led to believe as a
society especially in the Western
 
 
society especially in the Western
 
 
society especially in the Western
culture is that you're just male or
 
 
culture is that you're just male or
 
 
culture is that you're just male or
female
 
 
 
 
I always got mistaken for a girl even
 
 
I always got mistaken for a girl even
 
 
I always got mistaken for a girl even
when I was just like 11 or 12 strangers
 
 
when I was just like 11 or 12 strangers
 
 
when I was just like 11 or 12 strangers
would call me she and her and I would be
 
 
would call me she and her and I would be
 
 
would call me she and her and I would be
really embarrassed because I didn't know
 
 
really embarrassed because I didn't know
 
 
really embarrassed because I didn't know
what my family was going to think when I
 
 
what my family was going to think when I
 
 
what my family was going to think when I
transitioned I was 15 so when I started
 
 
transitioned I was 15 so when I started
 
 
transitioned I was 15 so when I started
to hang out by the pier and stuff and I
 
 
to hang out by the pier and stuff and I
 
 
to hang out by the pier and stuff and I
met older trans women this one it kind
 
 
met older trans women this one it kind
 
 
met older trans women this one it kind
of clicked for me it all made sense
 
 
of clicked for me it all made sense
 
 
of clicked for me it all made sense
 
 
 
 
I was kind of pushed into seeing the
 
 
I was kind of pushed into seeing the
 
 
I was kind of pushed into seeing the
counselor because I guess the staff at
 
 
counselor because I guess the staff at
 
 
counselor because I guess the staff at
my school just didn't understand what
 
 
my school just didn't understand what
 
 
my school just didn't understand what
was going on with me I remember her
 
 
was going on with me I remember her
 
 
was going on with me I remember her
giving me a pamphlet and it said
 
 
giving me a pamphlet and it said
 
 
giving me a pamphlet and it said
something about being born in the wrong
 
 
something about being born in the wrong
 
 
something about being born in the wrong
body I was like that really feels like
 
 
body I was like that really feels like
 
 
body I was like that really feels like
something I can identify with
 
 
something I can identify with
 
 
something I can identify with
 
 
 
 
when I was a child identified as female
 
 
when I was a child identified as female
 
 
when I was a child identified as female
I was even quite feminine and I was okay
 
 
I was even quite feminine and I was okay
 
 
I was even quite feminine and I was okay
with that but there was always a
 
 
with that but there was always a
 
 
with that but there was always a
fluidity for me when it came to gender I
 
 
fluidity for me when it came to gender I
 
 
fluidity for me when it came to gender I
always felt that I could be a girl or I
 
 
always felt that I could be a girl or I
 
 
always felt that I could be a girl or I
could be a boy
 
 
could be a boy
 
 
could be a boy
I could be both and this wasn't
 
 
I could be both and this wasn't
 
 
I could be both and this wasn't
something that I necessarily spoke about
 
 
something that I necessarily spoke about
 
 
something that I necessarily spoke about
 
 
 
 
then I grew older I moved away to
 
 
then I grew older I moved away to
 
 
then I grew older I moved away to
university and it was during that time
 
 
university and it was during that time
 
 
university and it was during that time
that I first came out as a lesbian at 21
 
 
that I first came out as a lesbian at 21
 
 
that I first came out as a lesbian at 21
I knew that my gender that any was
 
 
I knew that my gender that any was
 
 
I knew that my gender that any was
changing it wasn't the same when I was
 
 
changing it wasn't the same when I was
 
 
changing it wasn't the same when I was
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I came out as trans at the age of 30 and
 
 
I came out as trans at the age of 30 and
 
 
I came out as trans at the age of 30 and
that was very shocking to a lot of
 
 
that was very shocking to a lot of
 
 
that was very shocking to a lot of
people but the place that they're coming
 
 
people but the place that they're coming
 
 
people but the place that they're coming
from was well you know we know it in the
 
 
from was well you know we know it in the
 
 
from was well you know we know it in the
news it's only about it's about young
 
 
news it's only about it's about young
 
 
news it's only about it's about young
people only you're supposed to know when
 
 
people only you're supposed to know when
 
 
people only you're supposed to know when
you're a child every single trans person
 
 
you're a child every single trans person
 
 
you're a child every single trans person
knows when their child not when they're
 
 
knows when their child not when they're
 
 
knows when their child not when they're
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
just one story this person knew when
 
 
just one story this person knew when
 
 
just one story this person knew when
they were a toddler and has always known
 
 
they were a toddler and has always known
 
 
they were a toddler and has always known
and was suffering terribly it's a very
 
 
and was suffering terribly it's a very
 
 
and was suffering terribly it's a very
simple story and of course it's much
 
 
simple story and of course it's much
 
 
simple story and of course it's much
more complicated than that
 
 
more complicated than that
 
 
more complicated than that
for one thing many people don't know
 
 
for one thing many people don't know
 
 
for one thing many people don't know
when they're toddlers transgender
 
 
when they're toddlers transgender
 
 
when they're toddlers transgender
identity can emerge at any point in the
 
 
identity can emerge at any point in the
 
 
identity can emerge at any point in the
life cycle and we often feel quite
 
 
life cycle and we often feel quite
 
 
life cycle and we often feel quite
pressured into that simple story I
 
 
pressured into that simple story I
 
 
pressured into that simple story I
always knew
 
 
 
 
I came from the part of the world in
 
 
I came from the part of the world in
 
 
I came from the part of the world in
Asia where gender fluidity has always
 
 
Asia where gender fluidity has always
 
 
Asia where gender fluidity has always
been part of civilizations for thousands
 
 
been part of civilizations for thousands
 
 
been part of civilizations for thousands
of years in the Philippines we used to
 
 
of years in the Philippines we used to
 
 
of years in the Philippines we used to
call it Babylon which are priests that
 
 
call it Babylon which are priests that
 
 
call it Babylon which are priests that
are too spirited and it's actually
 
 
are too spirited and it's actually
 
 
are too spirited and it's actually
revered in India it's called Hydra the
 
 
revered in India it's called Hydra the
 
 
revered in India it's called Hydra the
Buddhist goddess of compassion guan yin
 
 
Buddhist goddess of compassion guan yin
 
 
Buddhist goddess of compassion guan yin
is a transgender woman and not just in
 
 
is a transgender woman and not just in
 
 
is a transgender woman and not just in
Asia this exists in every single old
 
 
Asia this exists in every single old
 
 
Asia this exists in every single old
civilizations you know the Native
 
 
civilizations you know the Native
 
 
civilizations you know the Native
Americans have peruvian habit iran had
 
 
Americans have peruvian habit iran had
 
 
Americans have peruvian habit iran had
it
 
 
it
 
 
it
 
 
 
 
nature loves diversity nature thrives on
 
 
nature loves diversity nature thrives on
 
 
nature loves diversity nature thrives on
diversity nature dies if it doesn't have
 
 
diversity nature dies if it doesn't have
 
 
diversity nature dies if it doesn't have
diversity
 
 
 
 
we need to see diversity and gender and
 
 
we need to see diversity and gender and
 
 
we need to see diversity and gender and
we need to give up on this idea that
 
 
we need to give up on this idea that
 
 
we need to give up on this idea that
there's only two genders even give up on
 
 
there's only two genders even give up on
 
 
there's only two genders even give up on
the idea that there's only two sexes the
 
 
the idea that there's only two sexes the
 
 
the idea that there's only two sexes the
biggest challenge that transgender
 
 
biggest challenge that transgender
 
 
biggest challenge that transgender
people have does most people want to
 
 
people have does most people want to
 
 
people have does most people want to
look at somebody anybody everybody and
 
 
look at somebody anybody everybody and
 
 
look at somebody anybody everybody and
say male or female and they feel they
 
 
say male or female and they feel they
 
 
say male or female and they feel they
need to know that before they know how
 
 
need to know that before they know how
 
 
need to know that before they know how
to do anything with that person how to
 
 
to do anything with that person how to
 
 
to do anything with that person how to
talk to them how close to stand with
 
 
talk to them how close to stand with
 
 
talk to them how close to stand with
them what things you can and can't say
 
 
them what things you can and can't say
 
 
them what things you can and can't say
how much eye contact to make most people
 
 
how much eye contact to make most people
 
 
how much eye contact to make most people
if they meet somebody and they can't
 
 
if they meet somebody and they can't
 
 
if they meet somebody and they can't
tell whether they're male or female are
 
 
tell whether they're male or female are
 
 
tell whether they're male or female are
dumbstruck they don't know what to do
 
 
dumbstruck they don't know what to do
 
 
dumbstruck they don't know what to do
they just get completely stuck
 
 
 
 
my family were unsure of how to even
 
 
my family were unsure of how to even
 
 
my family were unsure of how to even
react to this situation I always felt
 
 
react to this situation I always felt
 
 
react to this situation I always felt
like they were putting roadblocks in
 
 
like they were putting roadblocks in
 
 
like they were putting roadblocks in
ways of things that I wanted my mother
 
 
ways of things that I wanted my mother
 
 
ways of things that I wanted my mother
would constantly pressure me not to
 
 
would constantly pressure me not to
 
 
would constantly pressure me not to
pursue transitioning until I was done
 
 
pursue transitioning until I was done
 
 
pursue transitioning until I was done
high school but that was something that
 
 
high school but that was something that
 
 
high school but that was something that
was way too important to me to put off
 
 
was way too important to me to put off
 
 
was way too important to me to put off
so I went ahead with it anyway I never
 
 
so I went ahead with it anyway I never
 
 
so I went ahead with it anyway I never
came out to my family I never told my
 
 
came out to my family I never told my
 
 
came out to my family I never told my
mother I was gay or anything because I
 
 
mother I was gay or anything because I
 
 
mother I was gay or anything because I
didn't feel like I was gay I just
 
 
didn't feel like I was gay I just
 
 
didn't feel like I was gay I just
started dressing as a girl
 
 
started dressing as a girl
 
 
started dressing as a girl
 
 
 
 
it was confusing for me I didn't know
 
 
it was confusing for me I didn't know
 
 
it was confusing for me I didn't know
anything about transgender I never
 
 
anything about transgender I never
 
 
anything about transgender I never
educated myself prior to my child being
 
 
educated myself prior to my child being
 
 
educated myself prior to my child being
transgender I did cringe when I first
 
 
transgender I did cringe when I first
 
 
transgender I did cringe when I first
saw her walk out the bedroom dressed as
 
 
saw her walk out the bedroom dressed as
 
 
saw her walk out the bedroom dressed as
a woman you know I was a little taken
 
 
a woman you know I was a little taken
 
 
a woman you know I was a little taken
aback by it and I had all these
 
 
aback by it and I had all these
 
 
aback by it and I had all these
different emotions going on I didn't
 
 
different emotions going on I didn't
 
 
different emotions going on I didn't
know how to take it but um I never told
 
 
know how to take it but um I never told
 
 
know how to take it but um I never told
her not to be who she is I don't know
 
 
her not to be who she is I don't know
 
 
her not to be who she is I don't know
why I ever felt feminine why I felt like
 
 
why I ever felt feminine why I felt like
 
 
why I ever felt feminine why I felt like
I was born in the wrong body I don't
 
 
I was born in the wrong body I don't
 
 
I was born in the wrong body I don't
have those answers I just know that this
 
 
have those answers I just know that this
 
 
have those answers I just know that this
is who I want to be it's a little
 
 
is who I want to be it's a little
 
 
is who I want to be it's a little
difficult to explain to someone what it
 
 
difficult to explain to someone what it
 
 
difficult to explain to someone what it
means to be trans when you yourself
 
 
means to be trans when you yourself
 
 
means to be trans when you yourself
quite don't understand that you just
 
 
quite don't understand that you just
 
 
quite don't understand that you just
know that this is how you feel
 
 
know that this is how you feel
 
 
know that this is how you feel
comfortable no matter how much you try
 
 
comfortable no matter how much you try
 
 
comfortable no matter how much you try
to convince them that you are a woman
 
 
to convince them that you are a woman
 
 
to convince them that you are a woman
and that this is how you're supposed to
 
 
and that this is how you're supposed to
 
 
and that this is how you're supposed to
be there just are those people that will
 
 
be there just are those people that will
 
 
be there just are those people that will
never believe you and say no you're not
 
 
never believe you and say no you're not
 
 
never believe you and say no you're not
a woman you are a man and you were going
 
 
a woman you are a man and you were going
 
 
a woman you are a man and you were going
a guy and that's that
 
 
 
 
people and hasn't been aware of what
 
 
people and hasn't been aware of what
 
 
people and hasn't been aware of what
does it mean to be transgender and what
 
 
does it mean to be transgender and what
 
 
does it mean to be transgender and what
transgender people are experiencing when
 
 
transgender people are experiencing when
 
 
transgender people are experiencing when
we're born the birth certificate only
 
 
we're born the birth certificate only
 
 
we're born the birth certificate only
allows female and male when you're
 
 
allows female and male when you're
 
 
allows female and male when you're
challenging those binary people believe
 
 
challenging those binary people believe
 
 
challenging those binary people believe
that they have the right to judge you
 
 
 
 
there was a time when every piece of ID
 
 
there was a time when every piece of ID
 
 
there was a time when every piece of ID
had your race on it now people look at
 
 
had your race on it now people look at
 
 
had your race on it now people look at
the idea is ridiculous because where
 
 
the idea is ridiculous because where
 
 
the idea is ridiculous because where
does one race stop in the next one begin
 
 
does one race stop in the next one begin
 
 
does one race stop in the next one begin
that whole idea is now recognized as a
 
 
that whole idea is now recognized as a
 
 
that whole idea is now recognized as a
social construction and transgender
 
 
social construction and transgender
 
 
social construction and transgender
people are increasingly pushing the
 
 
people are increasingly pushing the
 
 
people are increasingly pushing the
envelope on that and saying well you
 
 
envelope on that and saying well you
 
 
envelope on that and saying well you
know maybe we don't need to have gender
 
 
know maybe we don't need to have gender
 
 
know maybe we don't need to have gender
on every piece of ID and maybe we don't
 
 
on every piece of ID and maybe we don't
 
 
on every piece of ID and maybe we don't
need to divide up your access to every
 
 
need to divide up your access to every
 
 
need to divide up your access to every
kind of resource right and privilege in
 
 
kind of resource right and privilege in
 
 
kind of resource right and privilege in
society on the basis of what your
 
 
society on the basis of what your
 
 
society on the basis of what your
genitals look like what does that have
 
 
genitals look like what does that have
 
 
genitals look like what does that have
to do with it
 
 
to do with it
 
 
to do with it
 
 
 
 
each person's transition is unique there
 
 
each person's transition is unique there
 
 
each person's transition is unique there
are some people for whom transition is
 
 
are some people for whom transition is
 
 
are some people for whom transition is
about changing their name their haircut
 
 
about changing their name their haircut
 
 
about changing their name their haircut
and their clothing and that's it they do
 
 
and their clothing and that's it they do
 
 
and their clothing and that's it they do
not want or need access to hormones or
 
 
not want or need access to hormones or
 
 
not want or need access to hormones or
surgeries but other people a broad range
 
 
surgeries but other people a broad range
 
 
surgeries but other people a broad range
of hormones and surgeries are really
 
 
of hormones and surgeries are really
 
 
of hormones and surgeries are really
essential to a decent livable life
 
 
 
 
once my parents were informed the next
 
 
once my parents were informed the next
 
 
once my parents were informed the next
thing was seeking help I was super
 
 
thing was seeking help I was super
 
 
thing was seeking help I was super
nervous because when you grow up
 
 
nervous because when you grow up
 
 
nervous because when you grow up
thinking there's something wrong with
 
 
thinking there's something wrong with
 
 
thinking there's something wrong with
you
 
 
you
 
 
you
trying to guess what doctors have to say
 
 
trying to guess what doctors have to say
 
 
trying to guess what doctors have to say
about it is pretty scary
 
 
about it is pretty scary
 
 
about it is pretty scary
the first time I went to see them I was
 
 
the first time I went to see them I was
 
 
the first time I went to see them I was
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I was done high school I would be in a
 
 
I was done high school I would be in a
 
 
I was done high school I would be in a
really good place as far as my
 
 
really good place as far as my
 
 
really good place as far as my
transition would go but I got nowhere
 
 
transition would go but I got nowhere
 
 
transition would go but I got nowhere
for six years but the traditional model
 
 
for six years but the traditional model
 
 
for six years but the traditional model
of trans care would argue that there's a
 
 
of trans care would argue that there's a
 
 
of trans care would argue that there's a
set of criteria that trans people have
 
 
set of criteria that trans people have
 
 
set of criteria that trans people have
to meet in order to be identified as
 
 
to meet in order to be identified as
 
 
to meet in order to be identified as
having gender identity disorder
 
 
having gender identity disorder
 
 
having gender identity disorder
the first struggle is just even being
 
 
the first struggle is just even being
 
 
the first struggle is just even being
recognized as a transgender person
 
 
 
 
I can't really say what their point and
 
 
I can't really say what their point and
 
 
I can't really say what their point and
all that was but I felt as though maybe
 
 
all that was but I felt as though maybe
 
 
all that was but I felt as though maybe
they were trying to instill doubt in me
 
 
they were trying to instill doubt in me
 
 
they were trying to instill doubt in me
that I was transgender maybe thought it
 
 
that I was transgender maybe thought it
 
 
that I was transgender maybe thought it
was just mentally ill
 
 
 
 
to be quite frank the amount of
 
 
to be quite frank the amount of
 
 
to be quite frank the amount of
knowledge in a medical community
 
 
knowledge in a medical community
 
 
knowledge in a medical community
approaches zero there is virtually no
 
 
approaches zero there is virtually no
 
 
approaches zero there is virtually no
teaching about transgender healthcare in
 
 
teaching about transgender healthcare in
 
 
teaching about transgender healthcare in
medical school there's really no
 
 
medical school there's really no
 
 
medical school there's really no
teaching in residency and unless the
 
 
teaching in residency and unless the
 
 
teaching in residency and unless the
position like myself takes it upon
 
 
position like myself takes it upon
 
 
position like myself takes it upon
themselves to go out and educate other
 
 
themselves to go out and educate other
 
 
themselves to go out and educate other
physicians the amount of training that
 
 
physicians the amount of training that
 
 
physicians the amount of training that
physicians get around transgender care
 
 
physicians get around transgender care
 
 
physicians get around transgender care
is essentially nothing I became very
 
 
is essentially nothing I became very
 
 
is essentially nothing I became very
depressed I ended up cutting off ties
 
 
depressed I ended up cutting off ties
 
 
depressed I ended up cutting off ties
with all of my friends because why Sarge
 
 
with all of my friends because why Sarge
 
 
with all of my friends because why Sarge
a new chapter in your life when you're
 
 
a new chapter in your life when you're
 
 
a new chapter in your life when you're
still in a place where you don't want to
 
 
still in a place where you don't want to
 
 
still in a place where you don't want to
be
 
 
be
 
 
be
 
 
 
 
they're moving out of their parents
 
 
they're moving out of their parents
 
 
they're moving out of their parents
house they're learning how to drive even
 
 
house they're learning how to drive even
 
 
house they're learning how to drive even
trivial things like dating how do you
 
 
trivial things like dating how do you
 
 
trivial things like dating how do you
date when you're a transgendered
 
 
date when you're a transgendered
 
 
date when you're a transgendered
teenager who's super insecure questions
 
 
teenager who's super insecure questions
 
 
teenager who's super insecure questions
transgender health care clinic what we
 
 
transgender health care clinic what we
 
 
transgender health care clinic what we
use is a patient-centered informed
 
 
use is a patient-centered informed
 
 
use is a patient-centered informed
consent model of care which essentially
 
 
consent model of care which essentially
 
 
consent model of care which essentially
allows the patient to self-identify and
 
 
allows the patient to self-identify and
 
 
allows the patient to self-identify and
then what we try and do is figure out
 
 
then what we try and do is figure out
 
 
then what we try and do is figure out
what they actually want to do about
 
 
what they actually want to do about
 
 
what they actually want to do about
their identity and for most people that
 
 
their identity and for most people that
 
 
their identity and for most people that
answer is to transition but it's not the
 
 
answer is to transition but it's not the
 
 
answer is to transition but it's not the
answer for everyone for me the
 
 
answer for everyone for me the
 
 
answer for everyone for me the
challenges were obviously like going
 
 
challenges were obviously like going
 
 
challenges were obviously like going
through high school and having to deal
 
 
through high school and having to deal
 
 
through high school and having to deal
with people seeing my transition as I
 
 
with people seeing my transition as I
 
 
with people seeing my transition as I
was experiencing it so as I gradually
 
 
was experiencing it so as I gradually
 
 
was experiencing it so as I gradually
became more feminine people had more to
 
 
became more feminine people had more to
 
 
became more feminine people had more to
talk about
 
 
talk about
 
 
talk about
I think express yourself more fully as a
 
 
I think express yourself more fully as a
 
 
I think express yourself more fully as a
human being in a more rounded way the
 
 
human being in a more rounded way the
 
 
human being in a more rounded way the
fact that I'm transgender is nobody's
 
 
fact that I'm transgender is nobody's
 
 
fact that I'm transgender is nobody's
business but my own and people who I
 
 
business but my own and people who I
 
 
business but my own and people who I
choose to tell are people that I trust
 
 
choose to tell are people that I trust
 
 
choose to tell are people that I trust
not friend of people that I'm just
 
 
not friend of people that I'm just
 
 
not friend of people that I'm just
forced to interact with
 
 
forced to interact with
 
 
forced to interact with
 
 
 
 
if I go to apply for a job or apply for
 
 
if I go to apply for a job or apply for
 
 
if I go to apply for a job or apply for
school the way that I look
 
 
school the way that I look
 
 
school the way that I look
doesn't really raise any red flags but
 
 
doesn't really raise any red flags but
 
 
doesn't really raise any red flags but
if I hand identification over that
 
 
if I hand identification over that
 
 
if I hand identification over that
identifies me as male I don't really
 
 
identifies me as male I don't really
 
 
identifies me as male I don't really
want to deal with all the questions that
 
 
want to deal with all the questions that
 
 
want to deal with all the questions that
follow
 
 
follow
 
 
follow
 
 
 
 
the way we do gender generally in this
 
 
the way we do gender generally in this
 
 
the way we do gender generally in this
culture is so messed up a man has to be
 
 
culture is so messed up a man has to be
 
 
culture is so messed up a man has to be
constantly demonstrating that he's manly
 
 
constantly demonstrating that he's manly
 
 
constantly demonstrating that he's manly
enough a woman has to be constantly
 
 
enough a woman has to be constantly
 
 
enough a woman has to be constantly
demonstrating that she's feminine enough
 
 
demonstrating that she's feminine enough
 
 
demonstrating that she's feminine enough
but as trans people we disrupt that
 
 
but as trans people we disrupt that
 
 
but as trans people we disrupt that
whole system just by our very existence
 
 
whole system just by our very existence
 
 
whole system just by our very existence
 
 
 
 
I knew who I was when I was very young I
 
 
I knew who I was when I was very young I
 
 
I knew who I was when I was very young I
remember watching a documentary about
 
 
remember watching a documentary about
 
 
remember watching a documentary about
running Richards with my dad I went to
 
 
running Richards with my dad I went to
 
 
running Richards with my dad I went to
the Google of the 1970s which was the
 
 
the Google of the 1970s which was the
 
 
the Google of the 1970s which was the
Encyclopedia Britannica and looked up
 
 
Encyclopedia Britannica and looked up
 
 
Encyclopedia Britannica and looked up
transgender transsexual and I went wow I
 
 
transgender transsexual and I went wow I
 
 
transgender transsexual and I went wow I
think that's me here I was growing up in
 
 
think that's me here I was growing up in
 
 
think that's me here I was growing up in
Northern Ontario in the 1970s
 
 
Northern Ontario in the 1970s
 
 
Northern Ontario in the 1970s
blue-collar in coal mining town there
 
 
blue-collar in coal mining town there
 
 
blue-collar in coal mining town there
was no way I could tell anybody about
 
 
was no way I could tell anybody about
 
 
was no way I could tell anybody about
this so I chose personally to try and
 
 
this so I chose personally to try and
 
 
this so I chose personally to try and
put it into a box I was born in 1925 at
 
 
put it into a box I was born in 1925 at
 
 
put it into a box I was born in 1925 at
that time there's absolutely no
 
 
that time there's absolutely no
 
 
that time there's absolutely no
knowledge no professional knowledge no
 
 
knowledge no professional knowledge no
 
 
knowledge no professional knowledge no
medical knowledge no public knowledge of
 
 
medical knowledge no public knowledge of
 
 
medical knowledge no public knowledge of
this condition which came to be known as
 
 
this condition which came to be known as
 
 
this condition which came to be known as
transsexualism I was probably about 4 or
 
 
transsexualism I was probably about 4 or
 
 
transsexualism I was probably about 4 or
when I had the dream
 
 
 
 
I saw a girl intervention the girl
 
 
I saw a girl intervention the girl
 
 
I saw a girl intervention the girl
identified so was me I looked in a
 
 
identified so was me I looked in a
 
 
identified so was me I looked in a
mirror in the dream and I had long
 
 
mirror in the dream and I had long
 
 
mirror in the dream and I had long
blonde curls
 
 
blonde curls
 
 
blonde curls
I couldn't explain if there was no
 
 
I couldn't explain if there was no
 
 
I couldn't explain if there was no
vocabulary anything like that to explain
 
 
vocabulary anything like that to explain
 
 
vocabulary anything like that to explain
it and for a long time less autumn must
 
 
it and for a long time less autumn must
 
 
it and for a long time less autumn must
be the only person in the world who's
 
 
be the only person in the world who's
 
 
be the only person in the world who's
affected by this condition
 
 
affected by this condition
 
 
affected by this condition
 
 
 
 
thanks to my awake of my worrying about
 
 
thanks to my awake of my worrying about
 
 
thanks to my awake of my worrying about
it I went to bed and prayed together
 
 
it I went to bed and prayed together
 
 
it I went to bed and prayed together
wake up in the opposite sex most
 
 
wake up in the opposite sex most
 
 
wake up in the opposite sex most
transgender people have this sort of
 
 
transgender people have this sort of
 
 
transgender people have this sort of
idea that you know God at some point
 
 
idea that you know God at some point
 
 
idea that you know God at some point
recognizes that they made a mistake and
 
 
recognizes that they made a mistake and
 
 
recognizes that they made a mistake and
will correct things and it never happens
 
 
 
 
you want to live your life so you make a
 
 
you want to live your life so you make a
 
 
you want to live your life so you make a
deal with yourself but I can just do
 
 
deal with yourself but I can just do
 
 
deal with yourself but I can just do
this I'll be okay or if I just get
 
 
this I'll be okay or if I just get
 
 
this I'll be okay or if I just get
through this then maybe I'll be okay
 
 
 
 
if I'm the perfect father or the perfect
 
 
if I'm the perfect father or the perfect
 
 
if I'm the perfect father or the perfect
doctor with a perfect son then nobody
 
 
doctor with a perfect son then nobody
 
 
doctor with a perfect son then nobody
would be able to see who I really was
 
 
 
 
my honestly bleed I think when I got
 
 
my honestly bleed I think when I got
 
 
my honestly bleed I think when I got
married that I would never ever do
 
 
married that I would never ever do
 
 
married that I would never ever do
anything about it I would go to my grave
 
 
anything about it I would go to my grave
 
 
anything about it I would go to my grave
but it has a secret
 
 
but it has a secret
 
 
but it has a secret
you
 
 
 
 
well as in the Navy I was at Bombay in
 
 
well as in the Navy I was at Bombay in
 
 
well as in the Navy I was at Bombay in
India and I went to a bookstore and I
 
 
India and I went to a bookstore and I
 
 
India and I went to a bookstore and I
found a rather surprising book there
 
 
found a rather surprising book there
 
 
found a rather surprising book there
called manage a woman this would be
 
 
called manage a woman this would be
 
 
called manage a woman this would be
about nineteen forty four or five or
 
 
about nineteen forty four or five or
 
 
about nineteen forty four or five or
bought this book took it on the ship I
 
 
bought this book took it on the ship I
 
 
bought this book took it on the ship I
read it very secretly when everybody had
 
 
read it very secretly when everybody had
 
 
read it very secretly when everybody had
turned in and then I hid it in a
 
 
turned in and then I hid it in a
 
 
turned in and then I hid it in a
suitcase I had with that finally closed
 
 
suitcase I had with that finally closed
 
 
suitcase I had with that finally closed
and hid it underneath where it couldn't
 
 
and hid it underneath where it couldn't
 
 
and hid it underneath where it couldn't
be found and hung on to it for quite a
 
 
be found and hung on to it for quite a
 
 
be found and hung on to it for quite a
long time but after reading that I knew
 
 
long time but after reading that I knew
 
 
long time but after reading that I knew
there was an answer to this
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I just remember driving home one day
 
 
I just remember driving home one day
 
 
I just remember driving home one day
after a night shift at the hospital a
 
 
after a night shift at the hospital a
 
 
after a night shift at the hospital a
transgendered person had come in and it
 
 
transgendered person had come in and it
 
 
transgendered person had come in and it
had a cardiac arrest that passed away
 
 
had a cardiac arrest that passed away
 
 
had a cardiac arrest that passed away
and I remember looking at that person
 
 
and I remember looking at that person
 
 
and I remember looking at that person
and thinking you know what I don't want
 
 
and thinking you know what I don't want
 
 
and thinking you know what I don't want
to be buried as a man as I drove home
 
 
to be buried as a man as I drove home
 
 
to be buried as a man as I drove home
that day I thought you know I got to do
 
 
that day I thought you know I got to do
 
 
that day I thought you know I got to do
something about this
 
 
 
 
just seeing somebody who you know was
 
 
just seeing somebody who you know was
 
 
just seeing somebody who you know was
living there truth to me it just seemed
 
 
living there truth to me it just seemed
 
 
living there truth to me it just seemed
like I was a liar I was somebody who
 
 
like I was a liar I was somebody who
 
 
like I was a liar I was somebody who
didn't even have the courage to be
 
 
didn't even have the courage to be
 
 
didn't even have the courage to be
myself
 
 
myself
 
 
myself
 
 
 
 
overriding everything was my desire to
 
 
overriding everything was my desire to
 
 
overriding everything was my desire to
lead when I defined as a normal life had
 
 
lead when I defined as a normal life had
 
 
lead when I defined as a normal life had
a wife at a home and children had a
 
 
a wife at a home and children had a
 
 
a wife at a home and children had a
decent job I had the satisfaction of
 
 
decent job I had the satisfaction of
 
 
decent job I had the satisfaction of
knowing that I was a respectable kind of
 
 
knowing that I was a respectable kind of
 
 
knowing that I was a respectable kind of
person the crisis point came at the end
 
 
person the crisis point came at the end
 
 
person the crisis point came at the end
of the second marriage I knew the only
 
 
of the second marriage I knew the only
 
 
of the second marriage I knew the only
answer survived I was personally
 
 
answer survived I was personally
 
 
answer survived I was personally
concerned was going to be to go through
 
 
concerned was going to be to go through
 
 
concerned was going to be to go through
with the gender change
 
 
with the gender change
 
 
with the gender change
 
 
 
 
I really honestly believe that if I
 
 
I really honestly believe that if I
 
 
I really honestly believe that if I
didn't transition if I didn't wasn't
 
 
didn't transition if I didn't wasn't
 
 
didn't transition if I didn't wasn't
truthful about who I was that you know I
 
 
truthful about who I was that you know I
 
 
truthful about who I was that you know I
couldn't no matter how hard it was I
 
 
couldn't no matter how hard it was I
 
 
couldn't no matter how hard it was I
couldn't be truthful to my partner I
 
 
couldn't be truthful to my partner I
 
 
couldn't be truthful to my partner I
couldn't be truthful to my children my
 
 
couldn't be truthful to my children my
 
 
couldn't be truthful to my children my
friends my family my parents and so I
 
 
friends my family my parents and so I
 
 
friends my family my parents and so I
really really felt that I finally had to
 
 
really really felt that I finally had to
 
 
really really felt that I finally had to
live my life honestly and that's a hard
 
 
live my life honestly and that's a hard
 
 
live my life honestly and that's a hard
decision because it is had consequences
 
 
decision because it is had consequences
 
 
decision because it is had consequences
 
 
 
 
it devastated my partner and justifiably
 
 
it devastated my partner and justifiably
 
 
it devastated my partner and justifiably
so it was devastating for her I wish you
 
 
so it was devastating for her I wish you
 
 
so it was devastating for her I wish you
know that I had told her before we ever
 
 
know that I had told her before we ever
 
 
know that I had told her before we ever
got married I wish I had done that I
 
 
got married I wish I had done that I
 
 
got married I wish I had done that I
wish I had the courage to do it I didn't
 
 
wish I had the courage to do it I didn't
 
 
wish I had the courage to do it I didn't
and that's certainly my biggest regret
 
 
and that's certainly my biggest regret
 
 
and that's certainly my biggest regret
 
 
 
 
I transitioned in my early fifties but
 
 
I transitioned in my early fifties but
 
 
I transitioned in my early fifties but
there was a very long period between
 
 
there was a very long period between
 
 
there was a very long period between
that recognition and summoning up the
 
 
that recognition and summoning up the
 
 
that recognition and summoning up the
courage to actually take action
 
 
 
 
I remember standing there and just
 
 
I remember standing there and just
 
 
I remember standing there and just
weeping because that's me that's me in
 
 
weeping because that's me that's me in
 
 
weeping because that's me that's me in
the mirror in a way it really had never
 
 
the mirror in a way it really had never
 
 
the mirror in a way it really had never
been in the past there was a sense of
 
 
been in the past there was a sense of
 
 
been in the past there was a sense of
coming to a place of wholeness that had
 
 
coming to a place of wholeness that had
 
 
coming to a place of wholeness that had
such a deep impact of so much joy so
 
 
such a deep impact of so much joy so
 
 
such a deep impact of so much joy so
much joy and comfort when I first
 
 
much joy and comfort when I first
 
 
much joy and comfort when I first
started taking hormones
 
 
started taking hormones
 
 
started taking hormones
the feeling was amazing you think you're
 
 
the feeling was amazing you think you're
 
 
the feeling was amazing you think you're
gonna suddenly get huge boobs and curvy
 
 
gonna suddenly get huge boobs and curvy
 
 
gonna suddenly get huge boobs and curvy
hips and smooth silky skin it's nothing
 
 
hips and smooth silky skin it's nothing
 
 
hips and smooth silky skin it's nothing
really like that hormones take what you
 
 
really like that hormones take what you
 
 
really like that hormones take what you
have and they feminized it so for me I
 
 
have and they feminized it so for me I
 
 
have and they feminized it so for me I
developed breasts my hips filled out
 
 
developed breasts my hips filled out
 
 
developed breasts my hips filled out
more just the basic markers of being a
 
 
more just the basic markers of being a
 
 
more just the basic markers of being a
woman I knew that at some point I would
 
 
woman I knew that at some point I would
 
 
woman I knew that at some point I would
have to decide am I gonna go on hormones
 
 
have to decide am I gonna go on hormones
 
 
have to decide am I gonna go on hormones
or am I not and I knew that if I didn't
 
 
or am I not and I knew that if I didn't
 
 
or am I not and I knew that if I didn't
go on hormones my life would be really
 
 
go on hormones my life would be really
 
 
go on hormones my life would be really
really complicated
 
 
 
 
I took my transition actually very slow
 
 
I took my transition actually very slow
 
 
I took my transition actually very slow
right so I didn't rush into hormones and
 
 
right so I didn't rush into hormones and
 
 
right so I didn't rush into hormones and
I started on very very low dose I wanted
 
 
I started on very very low dose I wanted
 
 
I started on very very low dose I wanted
to have complete control over what was
 
 
to have complete control over what was
 
 
to have complete control over what was
happening to my body that was really
 
 
happening to my body that was really
 
 
happening to my body that was really
important to me because it felt like I
 
 
important to me because it felt like I
 
 
important to me because it felt like I
could just I knew that this was a very
 
 
could just I knew that this was a very
 
 
could just I knew that this was a very
huge life change as I often tell my
 
 
huge life change as I often tell my
 
 
huge life change as I often tell my
clients I can't change your bone
 
 
clients I can't change your bone
 
 
clients I can't change your bone
structure I can't change your height but
 
 
structure I can't change your height but
 
 
structure I can't change your height but
it's amazing what a little bit of
 
 
it's amazing what a little bit of
 
 
it's amazing what a little bit of
surgery and some really good hormones
 
 
surgery and some really good hormones
 
 
surgery and some really good hormones
can do the ability to pass on a daily
 
 
can do the ability to pass on a daily
 
 
can do the ability to pass on a daily
basis has completely changed the quality
 
 
basis has completely changed the quality
 
 
basis has completely changed the quality
of my life I can't actually imagine what
 
 
of my life I can't actually imagine what
 
 
of my life I can't actually imagine what
it would be like if I still wasn't
 
 
it would be like if I still wasn't
 
 
it would be like if I still wasn't
passing I wasn't sleeping at night it
 
 
passing I wasn't sleeping at night it
 
 
passing I wasn't sleeping at night it
was all I thought about every single
 
 
was all I thought about every single
 
 
was all I thought about every single
interaction that I had with people my
 
 
interaction that I had with people my
 
 
interaction that I had with people my
mind was bombarded with am I going to be
 
 
mind was bombarded with am I going to be
 
 
mind was bombarded with am I going to be
passing am I gonna pass how's this
 
 
passing am I gonna pass how's this
 
 
passing am I gonna pass how's this
person gonna read me
 
 
 
 
passing is a term that we use in the
 
 
passing is a term that we use in the
 
 
passing is a term that we use in the
trans community to talk about can you
 
 
trans community to talk about can you
 
 
trans community to talk about can you
blend in with the population you know
 
 
blend in with the population you know
 
 
blend in with the population you know
can anybody tell that you used to be
 
 
can anybody tell that you used to be
 
 
can anybody tell that you used to be
male or female
 
 
male or female
 
 
male or female
I don't think it should be important but
 
 
I don't think it should be important but
 
 
I don't think it should be important but
when I talk to clients in their
 
 
when I talk to clients in their
 
 
when I talk to clients in their
day-to-day lives it does matter because
 
 
day-to-day lives it does matter because
 
 
day-to-day lives it does matter because
it's really hard to live your life every
 
 
it's really hard to live your life every
 
 
it's really hard to live your life every
day being challenged about your gender
 
 
day being challenged about your gender
 
 
day being challenged about your gender
the problem is that our brains are so
 
 
the problem is that our brains are so
 
 
the problem is that our brains are so
attuned to seem gender in a certain way
 
 
attuned to seem gender in a certain way
 
 
attuned to seem gender in a certain way
you know that men should look like men
 
 
you know that men should look like men
 
 
you know that men should look like men
and women should look like women being
 
 
and women should look like women being
 
 
and women should look like women being
passable helps you a lot it really does
 
 
passable helps you a lot it really does
 
 
passable helps you a lot it really does
in so many ways it helps you to get the
 
 
in so many ways it helps you to get the
 
 
in so many ways it helps you to get the
guy you may want it helps you to go to
 
 
guy you may want it helps you to go to
 
 
guy you may want it helps you to go to
school go to work it helps you to walk
 
 
school go to work it helps you to walk
 
 
school go to work it helps you to walk
down the street without getting harassed
 
 
down the street without getting harassed
 
 
down the street without getting harassed
people accept you when you're passable
 
 
people accept you when you're passable
 
 
people accept you when you're passable
I think the gift and the curse for me is
 
 
I think the gift and the curse for me is
 
 
I think the gift and the curse for me is
men are attracted to me but when they
 
 
men are attracted to me but when they
 
 
men are attracted to me but when they
find out they're like oh it's not easy
 
 
find out they're like oh it's not easy
 
 
find out they're like oh it's not easy
for a guy to deal with that you can't
 
 
for a guy to deal with that you can't
 
 
for a guy to deal with that you can't
just say okay just accept me I'm trans
 
 
just say okay just accept me I'm trans
 
 
just say okay just accept me I'm trans
it's not a big deal you can't just do
 
 
it's not a big deal you can't just do
 
 
it's not a big deal you can't just do
that when it made the decision to move
 
 
that when it made the decision to move
 
 
that when it made the decision to move
to New York I told myself I would
 
 
to New York I told myself I would
 
 
to New York I told myself I would
consciously not fully talk about it so
 
 
consciously not fully talk about it so
 
 
consciously not fully talk about it so
when they started modeling you know I
 
 
when they started modeling you know I
 
 
when they started modeling you know I
wasn't saying that I'm trans I'm just
 
 
wasn't saying that I'm trans I'm just
 
 
wasn't saying that I'm trans I'm just
I'm a female model I always have this
 
 
I'm a female model I always have this
 
 
I'm a female model I always have this
nagging voice in the back of my head
 
 
nagging voice in the back of my head
 
 
nagging voice in the back of my head
there was a constant paranoia and fear
 
 
there was a constant paranoia and fear
 
 
there was a constant paranoia and fear
 
 
 
 
now would you remember going in photo
 
 
now would you remember going in photo
 
 
now would you remember going in photo
shoots and thinking do they know there's
 
 
shoots and thinking do they know there's
 
 
shoots and thinking do they know there's
always that question do they know are
 
 
always that question do they know are
 
 
always that question do they know are
they if they find out do they think that
 
 
they if they find out do they think that
 
 
they if they find out do they think that
I unfold them or outside do they think
 
 
I unfold them or outside do they think
 
 
I unfold them or outside do they think
I'm lying
 
 
 
 
transphobia works in some very
 
 
transphobia works in some very
 
 
transphobia works in some very
particular ways it's a lot focused on
 
 
particular ways it's a lot focused on
 
 
particular ways it's a lot focused on
being a freak it's also focused on being
 
 
being a freak it's also focused on being
 
 
being a freak it's also focused on being
fake that being trans is somehow trying
 
 
fake that being trans is somehow trying
 
 
fake that being trans is somehow trying
to deceive other people as to who you
 
 
to deceive other people as to who you
 
 
to deceive other people as to who you
really are and the punishment that's
 
 
really are and the punishment that's
 
 
really are and the punishment that's
everywhere all the time is shamed if you
 
 
everywhere all the time is shamed if you
 
 
everywhere all the time is shamed if you
are seen to be breaking the rules around
 
 
are seen to be breaking the rules around
 
 
are seen to be breaking the rules around
gender you will be subject everyday to
 
 
gender you will be subject everyday to
 
 
gender you will be subject everyday to
dozens of little interactions which tell
 
 
dozens of little interactions which tell
 
 
dozens of little interactions which tell
you there's something wrong you don't
 
 
you there's something wrong you don't
 
 
you there's something wrong you don't
belong you make me uncomfortable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there's probably been a couple times
 
 
there's probably been a couple times
 
 
there's probably been a couple times
that I've actually stopped and turned to
 
 
that I've actually stopped and turned to
 
 
that I've actually stopped and turned to
the person and said do you realize what
 
 
the person and said do you realize what
 
 
the person and said do you realize what
you're asking me when you're asking me
 
 
you're asking me when you're asking me
 
 
you're asking me when you're asking me
if I've had the surgery and then I'll
 
 
if I've had the surgery and then I'll
 
 
if I've had the surgery and then I'll
just turn it right back on them and I'll
 
 
just turn it right back on them and I'll
 
 
just turn it right back on them and I'll
ask them if not if they've had the
 
 
ask them if not if they've had the
 
 
ask them if not if they've had the
surgery but I'll ask them what's what's
 
 
surgery but I'll ask them what's what's
 
 
surgery but I'll ask them what's what's
in your pants
 
 
 
 
I started out on the street that's the
 
 
I started out on the street that's the
 
 
I started out on the street that's the
only place the girls had to make money
 
 
only place the girls had to make money
 
 
only place the girls had to make money
was the street every trans girl I know
 
 
was the street every trans girl I know
 
 
was the street every trans girl I know
with the exception of like five or four
 
 
with the exception of like five or four
 
 
with the exception of like five or four
our prostitutes that's what they do for
 
 
our prostitutes that's what they do for
 
 
our prostitutes that's what they do for
a living
 
 
a living
 
 
a living
they have no choice and most jobs won't
 
 
they have no choice and most jobs won't
 
 
they have no choice and most jobs won't
hire them because they look like trans
 
 
hire them because they look like trans
 
 
hire them because they look like trans
women and so people discriminate against
 
 
women and so people discriminate against
 
 
women and so people discriminate against
girls like that then I met a trans woman
 
 
girls like that then I met a trans woman
 
 
girls like that then I met a trans woman
that was a bit older than me
 
 
that was a bit older than me
 
 
that was a bit older than me
and she said oh you're pretty do you
 
 
and she said oh you're pretty do you
 
 
and she said oh you're pretty do you
want to make money she showed me how to
 
 
want to make money she showed me how to
 
 
want to make money she showed me how to
like post my advertisement on the
 
 
like post my advertisement on the
 
 
like post my advertisement on the
internet and tour from state to state
 
 
internet and tour from state to state
 
 
internet and tour from state to state
and make real money I was 16 I was just
 
 
and make real money I was 16 I was just
 
 
and make real money I was 16 I was just
making lots of money too much money for
 
 
making lots of money too much money for
 
 
making lots of money too much money for
 
 
 
 
 
I was really scared of getting hurt
 
 
 
 
sometimes I'd be by myself in a hotel
 
 
sometimes I'd be by myself in a hotel
 
 
sometimes I'd be by myself in a hotel
room in the middle of nowhere and it'd
 
 
room in the middle of nowhere and it'd
 
 
room in the middle of nowhere and it'd
be late at night and these men would
 
 
be late at night and these men would
 
 
be late at night and these men would
come to see me and I'd be by myself you
 
 
come to see me and I'd be by myself you
 
 
come to see me and I'd be by myself you
don't know who's coming into your room
 
 
don't know who's coming into your room
 
 
don't know who's coming into your room
you don't know who they are what kind of
 
 
you don't know who they are what kind of
 
 
you don't know who they are what kind of
past they have or they have a weapon on
 
 
past they have or they have a weapon on
 
 
past they have or they have a weapon on
them you don't know anything about this
 
 
them you don't know anything about this
 
 
them you don't know anything about this
person who knows what could have
 
 
person who knows what could have
 
 
person who knows what could have
happened to me
 
 
 
 
here's the deal access to jobs access to
 
 
here's the deal access to jobs access to
 
 
here's the deal access to jobs access to
housing access to family access to
 
 
housing access to family access to
 
 
housing access to family access to
partners all of those are difficult for
 
 
partners all of those are difficult for
 
 
partners all of those are difficult for
trans people because of transphobia
 
 
trans people because of transphobia
 
 
trans people because of transphobia
nothing it's not because we're trans
 
 
nothing it's not because we're trans
 
 
nothing it's not because we're trans
it's because of transphobia the stats
 
 
it's because of transphobia the stats
 
 
it's because of transphobia the stats
are very solid we have double the rates
 
 
are very solid we have double the rates
 
 
are very solid we have double the rates
of unemployment overwhelmingly we live
 
 
of unemployment overwhelmingly we live
 
 
of unemployment overwhelmingly we live
in poverty we are more vulnerable to
 
 
in poverty we are more vulnerable to
 
 
in poverty we are more vulnerable to
assault than any other community and
 
 
assault than any other community and
 
 
assault than any other community and
that is doubly or quadruply true for
 
 
that is doubly or quadruply true for
 
 
that is doubly or quadruply true for
trans women so it's very clear that is
 
 
trans women so it's very clear that is
 
 
trans women so it's very clear that is
discrimination there's no other
 
 
discrimination there's no other
 
 
discrimination there's no other
explanation for it
 
 
 
 
I got in trouble with the law three
 
 
I got in trouble with the law three
 
 
I got in trouble with the law three
times
 
 
times
 
 
times
I actually had to go to jail and I was
 
 
I actually had to go to jail and I was
 
 
I actually had to go to jail and I was
in a dorm with men with like you know
 
 
in a dorm with men with like you know
 
 
in a dorm with men with like you know
grown men
 
 
 
 
I was so scared cuz I had never been to
 
 
I was so scared cuz I had never been to
 
 
I was so scared cuz I had never been to
jail before it just was like an epiphany
 
 
jail before it just was like an epiphany
 
 
jail before it just was like an epiphany
you just all click to me at that point I
 
 
you just all click to me at that point I
 
 
you just all click to me at that point I
just and I don't want to do this anymore
 
 
 
 
when this that discrimination from the
 
 
when this that discrimination from the
 
 
when this that discrimination from the
outside it's very hard to hold on to
 
 
outside it's very hard to hold on to
 
 
outside it's very hard to hold on to
self-esteem and when were younger
 
 
self-esteem and when were younger
 
 
self-esteem and when were younger
all of us have less resilience the risk
 
 
all of us have less resilience the risk
 
 
all of us have less resilience the risk
of suicide for trans youth is extremely
 
 
of suicide for trans youth is extremely
 
 
of suicide for trans youth is extremely
high and with good family support that
 
 
high and with good family support that
 
 
high and with good family support that
risk drops by 93 percent which I think
 
 
risk drops by 93 percent which I think
 
 
risk drops by 93 percent which I think
just makes it so clear those of us who
 
 
just makes it so clear those of us who
 
 
just makes it so clear those of us who
can depend on family it's huge
 
 
can depend on family it's huge
 
 
can depend on family it's huge
its enormous it makes an immense
 
 
its enormous it makes an immense
 
 
its enormous it makes an immense
difference if our families can be beside
 
 
difference if our families can be beside
 
 
difference if our families can be beside
us we're gonna do fine or we're gonna do
 
 
us we're gonna do fine or we're gonna do
 
 
us we're gonna do fine or we're gonna do
much much better if our families don't
 
 
much much better if our families don't
 
 
much much better if our families don't
support us the opposite is true I don't
 
 
support us the opposite is true I don't
 
 
support us the opposite is true I don't
mind using the word trans but I rather
 
 
mind using the word trans but I rather
 
 
mind using the word trans but I rather
use she like girl instead because that
 
 
use she like girl instead because that
 
 
use she like girl instead because that
represents me more
 
 
 
 
she was drawn to girls things you know
 
 
she was drawn to girls things you know
 
 
she was drawn to girls things you know
like she wanted to have a doll at some
 
 
like she wanted to have a doll at some
 
 
like she wanted to have a doll at some
point and she was really upset about
 
 
point and she was really upset about
 
 
point and she was really upset about
having to wear grey pants and then she
 
 
having to wear grey pants and then she
 
 
having to wear grey pants and then she
said why can't have that skirt and I
 
 
said why can't have that skirt and I
 
 
said why can't have that skirt and I
said well you know only you know your
 
 
said well you know only you know your
 
 
said well you know only you know your
boy you can't wear skirts to go to
 
 
boy you can't wear skirts to go to
 
 
boy you can't wear skirts to go to
school I knew that I wanted to look like
 
 
school I knew that I wanted to look like
 
 
school I knew that I wanted to look like
my dad but not my mom not into my mom's
 
 
my dad but not my mom not into my mom's
 
 
my dad but not my mom not into my mom's
ugly I think my mom's really pretty but
 
 
ugly I think my mom's really pretty but
 
 
ugly I think my mom's really pretty but
I wouldn't want to look like that
 
 
I wouldn't want to look like that
 
 
I wouldn't want to look like that
personally because it's not who I am
 
 
personally because it's not who I am
 
 
personally because it's not who I am
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
we kind of knew as early as two the
 
 
we kind of knew as early as two the
 
 
we kind of knew as early as two the
expression of self like the questions
 
 
expression of self like the questions
 
 
expression of self like the questions
like I'm a boy or I when do I get to be
 
 
like I'm a boy or I when do I get to be
 
 
like I'm a boy or I when do I get to be
a boy when is it my turn to be a boy I
 
 
a boy when is it my turn to be a boy I
 
 
a boy when is it my turn to be a boy I
 
 
 
 
absolutely didn't trust that a child
 
 
absolutely didn't trust that a child
 
 
absolutely didn't trust that a child
could know who they are I would say your
 
 
could know who they are I would say your
 
 
could know who they are I would say your
girl like this is who you are
 
 
girl like this is who you are
 
 
girl like this is who you are
I would even sometimes disapprove of
 
 
I would even sometimes disapprove of
 
 
I would even sometimes disapprove of
what he chose to wear and I would say
 
 
what he chose to wear and I would say
 
 
what he chose to wear and I would say
are you sure you're gonna wear that
 
 
 
 
parents were skeptical because kids say
 
 
parents were skeptical because kids say
 
 
parents were skeptical because kids say
things and they change their mind and
 
 
things and they change their mind and
 
 
things and they change their mind and
what I say to parents is yes kids change
 
 
what I say to parents is yes kids change
 
 
what I say to parents is yes kids change
mind about what instrument they want to
 
 
mind about what instrument they want to
 
 
mind about what instrument they want to
play kids change their mind about who
 
 
play kids change their mind about who
 
 
play kids change their mind about who
their friends are kids changing mind
 
 
their friends are kids changing mind
 
 
their friends are kids changing mind
about what sports they want to do but
 
 
about what sports they want to do but
 
 
about what sports they want to do but
when it comes to gender it's not the
 
 
when it comes to gender it's not the
 
 
when it comes to gender it's not the
same
 
 
same
 
 
same
 
 
 
 
I had a child who was very angry very
 
 
I had a child who was very angry very
 
 
I had a child who was very angry very
closed up and it was when Matt was like
 
 
closed up and it was when Matt was like
 
 
closed up and it was when Matt was like
two-and-a-half that they declared to me
 
 
two-and-a-half that they declared to me
 
 
two-and-a-half that they declared to me
that mom I'm not a boy I'm a girl and
 
 
that mom I'm not a boy I'm a girl and
 
 
that mom I'm not a boy I'm a girl and
I'm like oh okay
 
 
I'm like oh okay
 
 
I'm like oh okay
and it wasn't like well I feel like this
 
 
and it wasn't like well I feel like this
 
 
and it wasn't like well I feel like this
or I feel like that and it was really
 
 
or I feel like that and it was really
 
 
or I feel like that and it was really
this is who I am as soon as the chrono
 
 
this is who I am as soon as the chrono
 
 
this is who I am as soon as the chrono
started changing
 
 
started changing
 
 
started changing
everyone kind of forgot that Matteo was
 
 
everyone kind of forgot that Matteo was
 
 
everyone kind of forgot that Matteo was
anything but this cute little girl that
 
 
anything but this cute little girl that
 
 
anything but this cute little girl that
everyone loved and from there Matt
 
 
everyone loved and from there Matt
 
 
everyone loved and from there Matt
transition socially at the age of three
 
 
transition socially at the age of three
 
 
transition socially at the age of three
to female and by the age of five had the
 
 
to female and by the age of five had the
 
 
to female and by the age of five had the
new legal name changed my mother was
 
 
new legal name changed my mother was
 
 
new legal name changed my mother was
always more accepting and even from the
 
 
always more accepting and even from the
 
 
always more accepting and even from the
start when I say I wanted to be a girl
 
 
start when I say I wanted to be a girl
 
 
start when I say I wanted to be a girl
like around two she was always there to
 
 
like around two she was always there to
 
 
like around two she was always there to
back me up and made sure that I live the
 
 
back me up and made sure that I live the
 
 
back me up and made sure that I live the
life of like almost a typical normal
 
 
life of like almost a typical normal
 
 
life of like almost a typical normal
little girl
 
 
little girl
 
 
little girl
 
 
 
 
around 8:00 kids start to notice things
 
 
around 8:00 kids start to notice things
 
 
around 8:00 kids start to notice things
and they're like oh well I knew you in
 
 
and they're like oh well I knew you in
 
 
and they're like oh well I knew you in
kindergarten you were different and
 
 
kindergarten you were different and
 
 
kindergarten you were different and
agender are you are you girl or boy
 
 
agender are you are you girl or boy
 
 
agender are you are you girl or boy
 
 
 
 
there was a lot of bullying and it was
 
 
there was a lot of bullying and it was
 
 
there was a lot of bullying and it was
really overwhelming for me they ended up
 
 
really overwhelming for me they ended up
 
 
really overwhelming for me they ended up
asking me to like pull down my pants or
 
 
asking me to like pull down my pants or
 
 
asking me to like pull down my pants or
my skirt and my underwear and even show
 
 
my skirt and my underwear and even show
 
 
my skirt and my underwear and even show
them and then at one point I even
 
 
them and then at one point I even
 
 
them and then at one point I even
decided to like send a picture and I was
 
 
decided to like send a picture and I was
 
 
decided to like send a picture and I was
just in my underwear to show like proof
 
 
just in my underwear to show like proof
 
 
just in my underwear to show like proof
because I like had given up I didn't
 
 
because I like had given up I didn't
 
 
because I like had given up I didn't
know what to do anymore
 
 
 
 
we tried different ways of integrating
 
 
we tried different ways of integrating
 
 
we tried different ways of integrating
Matt in a school and they probably how
 
 
Matt in a school and they probably how
 
 
Matt in a school and they probably how
it was not what the students but with
 
 
it was not what the students but with
 
 
it was not what the students but with
the other teachers and the adults in the
 
 
the other teachers and the adults in the
 
 
the other teachers and the adults in the
school environment who were very
 
 
school environment who were very
 
 
school environment who were very
judgmental and very prejudiced against
 
 
judgmental and very prejudiced against
 
 
judgmental and very prejudiced against
that we've made a lot of progress in the
 
 
that we've made a lot of progress in the
 
 
that we've made a lot of progress in the
last five years and we've got a long way
 
 
last five years and we've got a long way
 
 
last five years and we've got a long way
to go the level of bullying the level of
 
 
to go the level of bullying the level of
 
 
to go the level of bullying the level of
harassment and not just from students
 
 
harassment and not just from students
 
 
harassment and not just from students
but also from teachers it's it's still
 
 
but also from teachers it's it's still
 
 
but also from teachers it's it's still
very bad non still feminine but I've
 
 
very bad non still feminine but I've
 
 
very bad non still feminine but I've
taken on orange artists role in my life
 
 
taken on orange artists role in my life
 
 
taken on orange artists role in my life
 
 
 
 
it's a lot easier for me and simpler for
 
 
it's a lot easier for me and simpler for
 
 
it's a lot easier for me and simpler for
everyone around me to just be a more
 
 
everyone around me to just be a more
 
 
everyone around me to just be a more
androgynous or go by he at school
 
 
androgynous or go by he at school
 
 
androgynous or go by he at school
because a lot of people aren't educated
 
 
because a lot of people aren't educated
 
 
because a lot of people aren't educated
on the situation
 
 
 
 
what I would like to see is people relax
 
 
what I would like to see is people relax
 
 
what I would like to see is people relax
a little bit about gender and realize
 
 
a little bit about gender and realize
 
 
a little bit about gender and realize
that there's no harm in this nothing bad
 
 
that there's no harm in this nothing bad
 
 
that there's no harm in this nothing bad
will happen if somebody's gender doesn't
 
 
will happen if somebody's gender doesn't
 
 
will happen if somebody's gender doesn't
necessary meet your expectations so what
 
 
necessary meet your expectations so what
 
 
necessary meet your expectations so what
you know it's not gonna cause you any
 
 
you know it's not gonna cause you any
 
 
you know it's not gonna cause you any
harm they're not going to hurt you
 
 
harm they're not going to hurt you
 
 
harm they're not going to hurt you
they're not gonna hurt your family
 
 
they're not gonna hurt your family
 
 
they're not gonna hurt your family
they're just living their lives it's
 
 
they're just living their lives it's
 
 
they're just living their lives it's
ignorance when people don't want to
 
 
ignorance when people don't want to
 
 
ignorance when people don't want to
protect a child or to include their
 
 
protect a child or to include their
 
 
protect a child or to include their
child in their communities because they
 
 
child in their communities because they
 
 
child in their communities because they
are scared our job is to protect our
 
 
are scared our job is to protect our
 
 
are scared our job is to protect our
kids to make sure that they grow as IP
 
 
kids to make sure that they grow as IP
 
 
kids to make sure that they grow as IP
children children that feel good with
 
 
children children that feel good with
 
 
children children that feel good with
him themselves so my child is saying
 
 
him themselves so my child is saying
 
 
him themselves so my child is saying
that she feels like a girl then you know
 
 
that she feels like a girl then you know
 
 
that she feels like a girl then you know
I think it's good enough for me to say
 
 
I think it's good enough for me to say
 
 
I think it's good enough for me to say
well you know will support you to be who
 
 
well you know will support you to be who
 
 
well you know will support you to be who
you are I really want to see my kid
 
 
you are I really want to see my kid
 
 
you are I really want to see my kid
attempt suicide no just for outside
 
 
attempt suicide no just for outside
 
 
attempt suicide no just for outside
communities to feel good ya know
 
 
communities to feel good ya know
 
 
communities to feel good ya know
thanks very much we feel good in the
 
 
thanks very much we feel good in the
 
 
thanks very much we feel good in the
family itself all he feels great how she
 
 
family itself all he feels great how she
 
 
family itself all he feels great how she
is now okay it's roll with it
 
 
is now okay it's roll with it
 
 
is now okay it's roll with it
 
 
 
 
the biggest thing for any kid is
 
 
the biggest thing for any kid is
 
 
the biggest thing for any kid is
resilience you want to build a person
 
 
resilience you want to build a person
 
 
resilience you want to build a person
who that when they're old they don't
 
 
who that when they're old they don't
 
 
who that when they're old they don't
fall apart in the face of adversity so
 
 
fall apart in the face of adversity so
 
 
fall apart in the face of adversity so
we're trying as best we can to raise
 
 
we're trying as best we can to raise
 
 
we're trying as best we can to raise
rent with that resilience Wren
 
 
rent with that resilience Wren
 
 
rent with that resilience Wren
definitively wanted something to stop
 
 
definitively wanted something to stop
 
 
definitively wanted something to stop
puberty there were lots of conversations
 
 
puberty there were lots of conversations
 
 
puberty there were lots of conversations
on I do not want to have this body and
 
 
on I do not want to have this body and
 
 
on I do not want to have this body and
he had certain you know I'm just
 
 
he had certain you know I'm just
 
 
he had certain you know I'm just
starting to feel like I don't want to
 
 
starting to feel like I don't want to
 
 
starting to feel like I don't want to
leave my room I was really scared that
 
 
leave my room I was really scared that
 
 
leave my room I was really scared that
my mom or dad will be like no cuz of
 
 
my mom or dad will be like no cuz of
 
 
my mom or dad will be like no cuz of
course you don't want to say your
 
 
course you don't want to say your
 
 
course you don't want to say your
parents right and if you feel like
 
 
parents right and if you feel like
 
 
parents right and if you feel like
you're making them upset then kind of
 
 
you're making them upset then kind of
 
 
you're making them upset then kind of
get scared and you're like oh I don't
 
 
get scared and you're like oh I don't
 
 
get scared and you're like oh I don't
want to tell them but I need to tell
 
 
want to tell them but I need to tell
 
 
want to tell them but I need to tell
them
 
 
them
 
 
them
 
 
 
 
I feel like a boy that I should be able
 
 
I feel like a boy that I should be able
 
 
I feel like a boy that I should be able
to do everything no other boys do and I
 
 
to do everything no other boys do and I
 
 
to do everything no other boys do and I
should be able to go through puberty as
 
 
should be able to go through puberty as
 
 
should be able to go through puberty as
a guy
 
 
a guy
 
 
a guy
 
 
 
 
he was very forceful and saying when's
 
 
he was very forceful and saying when's
 
 
he was very forceful and saying when's
it gonna happen what's going on let's
 
 
it gonna happen what's going on let's
 
 
it gonna happen what's going on let's
get on with this and for good reason he
 
 
get on with this and for good reason he
 
 
get on with this and for good reason he
just he felt the clock was ticking so we
 
 
just he felt the clock was ticking so we
 
 
just he felt the clock was ticking so we
as his parents felt the same thing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've never met a transgender person who
 
 
I've never met a transgender person who
 
 
I've never met a transgender person who
told me they're glad they waited to
 
 
told me they're glad they waited to
 
 
told me they're glad they waited to
transition I have had 10 year-olds tell
 
 
transition I have had 10 year-olds tell
 
 
transition I have had 10 year-olds tell
me they wish they'd transition when they
 
 
me they wish they'd transition when they
 
 
me they wish they'd transition when they
were 8 I have never had a single person
 
 
were 8 I have never had a single person
 
 
were 8 I have never had a single person
say I'm glad I waited
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
we have these hormone blockers or
 
 
we have these hormone blockers or
 
 
we have these hormone blockers or
puberty blockers which can just stop
 
 
puberty blockers which can just stop
 
 
puberty blockers which can just stop
puberty so this time for the kid to
 
 
puberty so this time for the kid to
 
 
puberty so this time for the kid to
mature a bit and for the family to get
 
 
mature a bit and for the family to get
 
 
mature a bit and for the family to get
used to the idea
 
 
used to the idea
 
 
used to the idea
knowing that you can completely revert
 
 
knowing that you can completely revert
 
 
knowing that you can completely revert
it before I took blockers I was worried
 
 
it before I took blockers I was worried
 
 
it before I took blockers I was worried
about the beard yes Lee and the voice
 
 
about the beard yes Lee and the voice
 
 
about the beard yes Lee and the voice
the beard and the voice and the pump
 
 
the beard and the voice and the pump
 
 
the beard and the voice and the pump
that all came here
 
 
 
 
I'm glad that I'm not going through
 
 
I'm glad that I'm not going through
 
 
I'm glad that I'm not going through
anything it's girly when I'm sixteen
 
 
anything it's girly when I'm sixteen
 
 
anything it's girly when I'm sixteen
I'll start taking testosterone and then
 
 
I'll start taking testosterone and then
 
 
I'll start taking testosterone and then
become personal severe we kind of have a
 
 
become personal severe we kind of have a
 
 
become personal severe we kind of have a
little joke like when we hear someone
 
 
little joke like when we hear someone
 
 
little joke like when we hear someone
say you know oh we're having a boy and I
 
 
say you know oh we're having a boy and I
 
 
say you know oh we're having a boy and I
kind of think maybe maybe not
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
everybody who comes into a society
 
 
everybody who comes into a society
 
 
everybody who comes into a society
brings their own individuality with them
 
 
brings their own individuality with them
 
 
brings their own individuality with them
transgender people are at this point
 
 
transgender people are at this point
 
 
transgender people are at this point
asking to have the rights and privileges
 
 
asking to have the rights and privileges
 
 
asking to have the rights and privileges
that everybody else has
 
 
that everybody else has
 
 
that everybody else has
do we need radical changes in society
 
 
do we need radical changes in society
 
 
do we need radical changes in society
for that to happen in the short term no
 
 
for that to happen in the short term no
 
 
for that to happen in the short term no
but in the long term I think that giving
 
 
but in the long term I think that giving
 
 
but in the long term I think that giving
transgendered people the space to live
 
 
transgendered people the space to live
 
 
transgendered people the space to live
true to who they really feel themselves
 
 
true to who they really feel themselves
 
 
true to who they really feel themselves
to be will transform society I feel more
 
 
to be will transform society I feel more
 
 
to be will transform society I feel more
and more today that's there are a lot
 
 
and more today that's there are a lot
 
 
and more today that's there are a lot
more trans people who are successful and
 
 
more trans people who are successful and
 
 
more trans people who are successful and
that gives me a lot of hope I feel like
 
 
that gives me a lot of hope I feel like
 
 
that gives me a lot of hope I feel like
I belong to this network and that we're
 
 
I belong to this network and that we're
 
 
I belong to this network and that we're
fighting really hard to improve the
 
 
fighting really hard to improve the
 
 
fighting really hard to improve the
lives of trans people so the younger the
 
 
lives of trans people so the younger the
 
 
lives of trans people so the younger the
younger generation doesn't have to go
 
 
younger generation doesn't have to go
 
 
younger generation doesn't have to go
through what many of us have had to go
 
 
through what many of us have had to go
 
 
through what many of us have had to go
through
 
 
through
 
 
through
 
 
 
 
once I decided to stop engaging in sex
 
 
once I decided to stop engaging in sex
 
 
once I decided to stop engaging in sex
work a friend of mine had been working
 
 
work a friend of mine had been working
 
 
work a friend of mine had been working
at a salon and I had expressed to a few
 
 
at a salon and I had expressed to a few
 
 
at a salon and I had expressed to a few
people that I knew that had jobs that I
 
 
people that I knew that had jobs that I
 
 
people that I knew that had jobs that I
wanted to start working in the gym and
 
 
wanted to start working in the gym and
 
 
wanted to start working in the gym and
he was the only person that really took
 
 
he was the only person that really took
 
 
he was the only person that really took
me seriously and he got me the interview
 
 
me seriously and he got me the interview
 
 
me seriously and he got me the interview
and I got the job
 
 
 
 
so for the first time ever I had an
 
 
so for the first time ever I had an
 
 
so for the first time ever I had an
actual 905 job and bills to pay so life
 
 
actual 905 job and bills to pay so life
 
 
actual 905 job and bills to pay so life
changed for me a lot I feel very happy
 
 
changed for me a lot I feel very happy
 
 
changed for me a lot I feel very happy
that I've transitioned into the person
 
 
that I've transitioned into the person
 
 
that I've transitioned into the person
that I am today
 
 
 
 
I sleep better at night not have to
 
 
I sleep better at night not have to
 
 
I sleep better at night not have to
worry about getting arrested because I'm
 
 
worry about getting arrested because I'm
 
 
worry about getting arrested because I'm
not doing anything illegal anymore
 
 
not doing anything illegal anymore
 
 
not doing anything illegal anymore
currently I'm waiting for my legal name
 
 
currently I'm waiting for my legal name
 
 
currently I'm waiting for my legal name
change and my legal gender changed to be
 
 
change and my legal gender changed to be
 
 
change and my legal gender changed to be
sent to me so that's like a new birth
 
 
sent to me so that's like a new birth
 
 
sent to me so that's like a new birth
certificate in a health card
 
 
 
 
being able to have legal verification
 
 
being able to have legal verification
 
 
being able to have legal verification
that yes I am a woman it's gonna help
 
 
that yes I am a woman it's gonna help
 
 
that yes I am a woman it's gonna help
with everything because legally
 
 
with everything because legally
 
 
with everything because legally
physically and mentally you're a woman
 
 
 
 
the weight is terrible I've been sitting
 
 
the weight is terrible I've been sitting
 
 
the weight is terrible I've been sitting
here like twiddling my thumbs I just
 
 
here like twiddling my thumbs I just
 
 
here like twiddling my thumbs I just
want to have it in my hands and be like
 
 
want to have it in my hands and be like
 
 
want to have it in my hands and be like
I'm a person I'm a person I think it's
 
 
I'm a person I'm a person I think it's
 
 
I'm a person I'm a person I think it's
LGBTQ I think that tea right now it's
 
 
LGBTQ I think that tea right now it's
 
 
LGBTQ I think that tea right now it's
always been disregarded me and my
 
 
always been disregarded me and my
 
 
always been disregarded me and my
community are definitely gonna put that
 
 
community are definitely gonna put that
 
 
community are definitely gonna put that
spotlight and not see as much as we can
 
 
spotlight and not see as much as we can
 
 
spotlight and not see as much as we can
because the transgender identity would
 
 
because the transgender identity would
 
 
because the transgender identity would
freed up people to understand full
 
 
freed up people to understand full
 
 
freed up people to understand full
equality of gender every five years the
 
 
equality of gender every five years the
 
 
equality of gender every five years the
number of people who identify as trans
 
 
number of people who identify as trans
 
 
number of people who identify as trans
has doubled so here's how many trans
 
 
has doubled so here's how many trans
 
 
has doubled so here's how many trans
people there are more than yesterday
 
 
people there are more than yesterday
 
 
people there are more than yesterday
less than tomorrow watch out here we
 
 
less than tomorrow watch out here we
 
 
less than tomorrow watch out here we
come
 
 
come
 
 
come
it's wonderful to be trans and to be
 
 
it's wonderful to be trans and to be
 
 
it's wonderful to be trans and to be
able to have accessed the technologies
 
 
able to have accessed the technologies
 
 
able to have accessed the technologies
that mean I can live in this body with
 
 
that mean I can live in this body with
 
 
that mean I can live in this body with
so much more pleasure with so much more
 
 
so much more pleasure with so much more
 
 
so much more pleasure with so much more
presence that I can live as myself with
 
 
presence that I can live as myself with
 
 
presence that I can live as myself with
so much more authenticity I haven't made
 
 
so much more authenticity I haven't made
 
 
so much more authenticity I haven't made
it my business to tell people at work
 
 
it my business to tell people at work
 
 
it my business to tell people at work
that I'm trans I don't think it's
 
 
that I'm trans I don't think it's
 
 
that I'm trans I don't think it's
important I think it's irrelevant if
 
 
important I think it's irrelevant if
 
 
important I think it's irrelevant if
someone would have asked me I wouldn't
 
 
someone would have asked me I wouldn't
 
 
someone would have asked me I wouldn't
deny it I'm not ashamed of Who I am I
 
 
deny it I'm not ashamed of Who I am I
 
 
deny it I'm not ashamed of Who I am I
just don't think it matters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there are trans people who say this
 
 
there are trans people who say this
 
 
there are trans people who say this
whole idea that there are men and there
 
 
whole idea that there are men and there
 
 
whole idea that there are men and there
are women in your one or the other it
 
 
are women in your one or the other it
 
 
are women in your one or the other it
doesn't work the dividing line between
 
 
doesn't work the dividing line between
 
 
doesn't work the dividing line between
the sexes is something that is a matter
 
 
the sexes is something that is a matter
 
 
the sexes is something that is a matter
of public debate because we make
 
 
of public debate because we make
 
 
of public debate because we make
different social decisions we need to
 
 
different social decisions we need to
 
 
different social decisions we need to
see diversity and gender never need to
 
 
see diversity and gender never need to
 
 
see diversity and gender never need to
give up on this idea that there's only
 
 
give up on this idea that there's only
 
 
give up on this idea that there's only
two genders even give up on the idea
 
 
two genders even give up on the idea
 
 
two genders even give up on the idea
that there's only two sexes and maybe
 
 
that there's only two sexes and maybe
 
 
that there's only two sexes and maybe
the time for dividing up everybody in
 
 
the time for dividing up everybody in
 
 
the time for dividing up everybody in
society on the basis of what their
 
 
society on the basis of what their
 
 
society on the basis of what their
genitals look like is passed
 
 
genitals look like is passed
 
 
genitals look like is passed
you
 
 
 
 
you

 
good evening they are the words that any

 
good evening they are the words that any

 
good evening they are the words that any
parent would want to hear about their

 
parent would want to hear about their

 
parent would want to hear about their
daughter

 
daughter

 
daughter
she is such a remarkable little girl for

 
she is such a remarkable little girl for

 
she is such a remarkable little girl for
a girl named jazz
 
 
a girl named jazz
 
 
a girl named jazz
the word remarkable doesn't begin to
 
 
the word remarkable doesn't begin to
 
 
the word remarkable doesn't begin to
cover it
 
 
cover it
 
 
cover it
at just 11 years old she has taken what
 
 
at just 11 years old she has taken what
 
 
at just 11 years old she has taken what
most children and their families
 
 
most children and their families
 
 
most children and their families
would regard as a terrible secret and
 
 
would regard as a terrible secret and
 
 
would regard as a terrible secret and
brought it smashing
 
 
brought it smashing
 
 
brought it smashing
into the open she is the brave and
 
 
into the open she is the brave and
 
 
into the open she is the brave and
beautiful
 
 
beautiful
 
 
beautiful
new face of a child born in the wrong
 
 
new face of a child born in the wrong
 
 
new face of a child born in the wrong
body
 
 
 
 
describe jazz vibrant
 
 
describe jazz vibrant
 
 
describe jazz vibrant
happy full of life self-confident
 
 
happy full of life self-confident
 
 
happy full of life self-confident
beautiful glowing feminine
 
 
beautiful glowing feminine
 
 
beautiful glowing feminine
so feminine she wears pink cleats on the
 
 
so feminine she wears pink cleats on the
 
 
so feminine she wears pink cleats on the
soccer field
 
 
soccer field
 
 
soccer field
she likes my new bra and padded bras she
 
 
she likes my new bra and padded bras she
 
 
she likes my new bra and padded bras she
not only dreams of mermaids
 
 
not only dreams of mermaids
 
 
not only dreams of mermaids
she swims like one if you didn't know it
 
 
she swims like one if you didn't know it
 
 
she swims like one if you didn't know it
would you believe
 
 
would you believe
 
 
would you believe
this 11 year old girl was biologically
 
 
this 11 year old girl was biologically
 
 
this 11 year old girl was biologically
a boy let's get this straight jazz are
 
 
a boy let's get this straight jazz are
 
 
a boy let's get this straight jazz are
you a boy
 
 
you a boy
 
 
you a boy
or a girl i am definitely a girl
 
 
or a girl i am definitely a girl
 
 
or a girl i am definitely a girl
like that's all i consider myself as i'm
 
 
like that's all i consider myself as i'm
 
 
like that's all i consider myself as i'm
sorry i know i never do anything with my
 
 
sorry i know i never do anything with my
 
 
sorry i know i never do anything with my
hair but
 
 
hair but
 
 
hair but
jazz is transgender a boy living as a
 
 
jazz is transgender a boy living as a
 
 
jazz is transgender a boy living as a
girl
 
 
girl
 
 
girl
i have a girl brain and a boy body hi
 
 
i have a girl brain and a boy body hi
 
 
i have a girl brain and a boy body hi
when we first met jaya's in 2007 she was
 
 
when we first met jaya's in 2007 she was
 
 
when we first met jaya's in 2007 she was
only six years old
 
 
only six years old
 
 
only six years old
and one of the youngest documented cases
 
 
and one of the youngest documented cases
 
 
and one of the youngest documented cases
of an
 
 
of an
 
 
of an
early transition from male to female
 
 
early transition from male to female
 
 
early transition from male to female
we'll say things like god made you
 
 
we'll say things like god made you
 
 
we'll say things like god made you
special because there aren't very many
 
 
special because there aren't very many
 
 
special because there aren't very many
little girls out there that have a penis
 
 
little girls out there that have a penis
 
 
little girls out there that have a penis
at age five her parents jeanette and
 
 
at age five her parents jeanette and
 
 
at age five her parents jeanette and
greg
 
 
greg
 
 
greg
made an extraordinary decision they
 
 
made an extraordinary decision they
 
 
made an extraordinary decision they
allowed jazz to
 
 
allowed jazz to
 
 
allowed jazz to
openly identify in the opposite gender
 
 
openly identify in the opposite gender
 
 
openly identify in the opposite gender
because they and their doctor were
 
 
because they and their doctor were
 
 
because they and their doctor were
convinced this was not a phase
 
 
convinced this was not a phase
 
 
convinced this was not a phase
but a condition now called gender
 
 
but a condition now called gender
 
 
but a condition now called gender
dysphoria
 
 
dysphoria
 
 
dysphoria
a phase is called the phase because it
 
 
a phase is called the phase because it
 
 
a phase is called the phase because it
is just that it
 
 
is just that it
 
 
is just that it
ends and this is not ending this is just
 
 
ends and this is not ending this is just
 
 
ends and this is not ending this is just
getting stronger
 
 
getting stronger
 
 
getting stronger
as difficult as it is for people to
 
 
as difficult as it is for people to
 
 
as difficult as it is for people to
understand
 
 
understand
 
 
understand
you only had to walk into jazz's bedroom
 
 
you only had to walk into jazz's bedroom
 
 
you only had to walk into jazz's bedroom
as i did
 
 
as i did
 
 
as i did
oh how pretty to know this was not a
 
 
oh how pretty to know this was not a
 
 
oh how pretty to know this was not a
passing fad
 
 
passing fad
 
 
passing fad
it was filled with girly things dresses
 
 
it was filled with girly things dresses
 
 
it was filled with girly things dresses
and dolls
 
 
and dolls
 
 
and dolls
but it was a picture she drew that made
 
 
but it was a picture she drew that made
 
 
but it was a picture she drew that made
jazz's world
 
 
jazz's world
 
 
jazz's world
crystal clear tell me about this picture
 
 
crystal clear tell me about this picture
 
 
crystal clear tell me about this picture
why is
 
 
why is
 
 
why is
the little girl crying because she wants
 
 
the little girl crying because she wants
 
 
the little girl crying because she wants
to wear the dress to school
 
 
to wear the dress to school
 
 
to wear the dress to school
and mommy won't let her yeah but now
 
 
and mommy won't let her yeah but now
 
 
and mommy won't let her yeah but now
does mommy
 
 
does mommy
 
 
does mommy
let the little girl wear a dress
 
 
let the little girl wear a dress
 
 
let the little girl wear a dress
is the little girl you
 
 
 
 
five years later jazz is still jazz
 
 
five years later jazz is still jazz
 
 
five years later jazz is still jazz
has jazz shown any desire to change and
 
 
has jazz shown any desire to change and
 
 
has jazz shown any desire to change and
go back to being a boy
 
 
go back to being a boy
 
 
go back to being a boy
never today jazz's bedroom is lined with
 
 
never today jazz's bedroom is lined with
 
 
never today jazz's bedroom is lined with
photos from cheerleading
 
 
photos from cheerleading
 
 
photos from cheerleading
and girls soccer she draws and sews
 
 
and girls soccer she draws and sews
 
 
and girls soccer she draws and sews
carefully seaming together her own
 
 
carefully seaming together her own
 
 
carefully seaming together her own
mermaid outfits
 
 
mermaid outfits
 
 
mermaid outfits
it's like the motion makes you feel like
 
 
it's like the motion makes you feel like
 
 
it's like the motion makes you feel like
you're an actual mermaid
 
 
you're an actual mermaid
 
 
you're an actual mermaid
in fact many young male to female trans
 
 
in fact many young male to female trans
 
 
in fact many young male to female trans
kids are obsessed with mermaids
 
 
kids are obsessed with mermaids
 
 
kids are obsessed with mermaids
i believe because the ambiguous
 
 
i believe because the ambiguous
 
 
i believe because the ambiguous
genitalia there's nothing below the
 
 
genitalia there's nothing below the
 
 
genitalia there's nothing below the
waist but a tail
 
 
waist but a tail
 
 
waist but a tail
and how appealing is that for somebody
 
 
and how appealing is that for somebody
 
 
and how appealing is that for somebody
who doesn't like what's down there no
 
 
who doesn't like what's down there no
 
 
who doesn't like what's down there no
one knows why thousands of children like
 
 
one knows why thousands of children like
 
 
one knows why thousands of children like
jazz
 
 
jazz
 
 
jazz
are transgender they're only theories
 
 
are transgender they're only theories
 
 
are transgender they're only theories
mom is that a mermaid
 
 
mom is that a mermaid
 
 
mom is that a mermaid
despite growing awareness many still
 
 
despite growing awareness many still
 
 
despite growing awareness many still
face unthinkable
 
 
face unthinkable
 
 
face unthinkable
obstacles from a world that sees them as
 
 
obstacles from a world that sees them as
 
 
obstacles from a world that sees them as
freaks of nature
 
 
freaks of nature
 
 
freaks of nature
do people treat you differently when
 
 
do people treat you differently when
 
 
do people treat you differently when
they know you're transgender
 
 
they know you're transgender
 
 
they know you're transgender
yes they do they don't understand what
 
 
yes they do they don't understand what
 
 
yes they do they don't understand what
the concept means and
 
 
the concept means and
 
 
the concept means and
they think that i'm weird and that
 
 
they think that i'm weird and that
 
 
they think that i'm weird and that
i shouldn't have the same rights as them
 
 
i shouldn't have the same rights as them
 
 
i shouldn't have the same rights as them
just because
 
 
just because
 
 
just because
of what's between my legs you know that
 
 
of what's between my legs you know that
 
 
of what's between my legs you know that
there are people who think you could
 
 
there are people who think you could
 
 
there are people who think you could
have prevented it
 
 
have prevented it
 
 
have prevented it
why did you allow it to happen yeah
 
 
why did you allow it to happen yeah
 
 
why did you allow it to happen yeah
there's people definitely think that
 
 
there's people definitely think that
 
 
there's people definitely think that
and what do you say i don't really care
 
 
and what do you say i don't really care
 
 
and what do you say i don't really care
what they think
 
 
what they think
 
 
what they think
jazz is fortunate her parents and three
 
 
jazz is fortunate her parents and three
 
 
jazz is fortunate her parents and three
siblings accept her
 
 
siblings accept her
 
 
siblings accept her
and as much as they can keep us safe
 
 
and as much as they can keep us safe
 
 
and as much as they can keep us safe
which is why they asked us not to use
 
 
which is why they asked us not to use
 
 
which is why they asked us not to use
their last name or location
 
 
their last name or location
 
 
their last name or location
i think the family is very supportive of
 
 
i think the family is very supportive of
 
 
i think the family is very supportive of
jazz we've tried to
 
 
jazz we've tried to
 
 
jazz we've tried to
make things as normal and ordinary
 
 
make things as normal and ordinary
 
 
make things as normal and ordinary
american family as we can
 
 
american family as we can
 
 
american family as we can
the older twins are always looking out
 
 
the older twins are always looking out
 
 
the older twins are always looking out
for jazz
 
 
for jazz
 
 
for jazz
ari the older sister and her friends
 
 
ari the older sister and her friends
 
 
ari the older sister and her friends
hang out with jazz they treat
 
 
hang out with jazz they treat
 
 
hang out with jazz they treat
jazz like a little sister what do you
 
 
jazz like a little sister what do you
 
 
jazz like a little sister what do you
explain to people about your sister
 
 
explain to people about your sister
 
 
explain to people about your sister
i tell people that it's a disorder and
 
 
i tell people that it's a disorder and
 
 
i tell people that it's a disorder and
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
it wasn't it's not by choice how do you
 
 
it wasn't it's not by choice how do you
 
 
it wasn't it's not by choice how do you
feel jazz when your sister says it's a
 
 
feel jazz when your sister says it's a
 
 
feel jazz when your sister says it's a
disorder um
 
 
disorder um
 
 
disorder um
personally i don't like that word that
 
 
personally i don't like that word that
 
 
personally i don't like that word that
um that much i'd prefer
 
 
um that much i'd prefer
 
 
um that much i'd prefer
special or unique because that's what i
 
 
special or unique because that's what i
 
 
special or unique because that's what i
think being transgender is
 
 
think being transgender is
 
 
think being transgender is
but others have different words to
 
 
but others have different words to
 
 
but others have different words to
describe jazz
 
 
describe jazz
 
 
describe jazz
hateful words as they discovered after
 
 
hateful words as they discovered after
 
 
hateful words as they discovered after
posting this video on youtube
 
 
posting this video on youtube
 
 
posting this video on youtube
hi i'm jess i'm 11 years old i was born
 
 
hi i'm jess i'm 11 years old i was born
 
 
hi i'm jess i'm 11 years old i was born
a boy
 
 
a boy
 
 
a boy
but i live as a girl sharing jazza's
 
 
but i live as a girl sharing jazza's
 
 
but i live as a girl sharing jazza's
story has come
 
 
story has come
 
 
story has come
at a price are you ever worried about
 
 
at a price are you ever worried about
 
 
at a price are you ever worried about
your safety i mean does anybody
 
 
your safety i mean does anybody
 
 
your safety i mean does anybody
threaten you yeah um on the youtube
 
 
threaten you yeah um on the youtube
 
 
threaten you yeah um on the youtube
video some people who are
 
 
video some people who are
 
 
video some people who are
less understanding actually say very
 
 
less understanding actually say very
 
 
less understanding actually say very
nasty and rude comments
 
 
nasty and rude comments
 
 
nasty and rude comments
it definitely hurts to hear them say
 
 
it definitely hurts to hear them say
 
 
it definitely hurts to hear them say
that
 
 
that
 
 
that
they would want to kill me or something
 
 
they would want to kill me or something
 
 
they would want to kill me or something
like that they can't wrap their mind
 
 
like that they can't wrap their mind
 
 
like that they can't wrap their mind
around
 
 
around
 
 
around
the idea of a transgender kid and i want
 
 
the idea of a transgender kid and i want
 
 
the idea of a transgender kid and i want
to tell everybody they're wrong and show
 
 
to tell everybody they're wrong and show
 
 
to tell everybody they're wrong and show
them jazz because when people meet her
 
 
them jazz because when people meet her
 
 
them jazz because when people meet her
they start to get it one go
 
 
they start to get it one go
 
 
they start to get it one go
jazz has a handful of girlfriends
 
 
jazz has a handful of girlfriends
 
 
jazz has a handful of girlfriends
they've all started middle school
 
 
they've all started middle school
 
 
they've all started middle school
a challenging and precarious time but
 
 
a challenging and precarious time but
 
 
a challenging and precarious time but
especially
 
 
especially
 
 
especially
for a transgender tween she's enrolled
 
 
for a transgender tween she's enrolled
 
 
for a transgender tween she's enrolled
in school as a girl
 
 
in school as a girl
 
 
in school as a girl
thanks to her parents lobbying and her
 
 
thanks to her parents lobbying and her
 
 
thanks to her parents lobbying and her
passport even shows her
 
 
passport even shows her
 
 
passport even shows her
as female the faculty and some students
 
 
as female the faculty and some students
 
 
as female the faculty and some students
know about her
 
 
know about her
 
 
know about her
special situation she uses the girl's
 
 
special situation she uses the girl's
 
 
special situation she uses the girl's
bathroom
 
 
bathroom
 
 
bathroom
and even plays on the girls soccer team
 
 
and even plays on the girls soccer team
 
 
and even plays on the girls soccer team
you love to play soccer
 
 
you love to play soccer
 
 
you love to play soccer
yeah and you're pretty good at it right
 
 
yeah and you're pretty good at it right
 
 
yeah and you're pretty good at it right
yeah yeah
 
 
yeah yeah
 
 
yeah yeah
but at the age of eight she was banned
 
 
but at the age of eight she was banned
 
 
but at the age of eight she was banned
from girls soccer by league officials
 
 
from girls soccer by league officials
 
 
from girls soccer by league officials
what do you say to people who say well
 
 
what do you say to people who say well
 
 
what do you say to people who say well
you know she's biologically a boy
 
 
you know she's biologically a boy
 
 
you know she's biologically a boy
therefore she's stronger and she
 
 
therefore she's stronger and she
 
 
therefore she's stronger and she
shouldn't be on that team
 
 
shouldn't be on that team
 
 
shouldn't be on that team
i do not agree with him because i am
 
 
i do not agree with him because i am
 
 
i do not agree with him because i am
like one of the smallest people on my
 
 
like one of the smallest people on my
 
 
like one of the smallest people on my
team compared to the other girls they're
 
 
team compared to the other girls they're
 
 
team compared to the other girls they're
all
 
 
all
 
 
all
very tall and more masculine and i'm
 
 
very tall and more masculine and i'm
 
 
very tall and more masculine and i'm
sort of smaller but
 
 
sort of smaller but
 
 
sort of smaller but
i am quicker jazz fought back
 
 
i am quicker jazz fought back
 
 
i am quicker jazz fought back
and after a two and a half year legal
 
 
and after a two and a half year legal
 
 
and after a two and a half year legal
battle won the right
 
 
battle won the right
 
 
battle won the right
to play as a girl
 
 
to play as a girl
 
 
to play as a girl
an unprecedented victory that opened the
 
 
an unprecedented victory that opened the
 
 
an unprecedented victory that opened the
door for all
 
 
door for all
 
 
door for all
transgender kids jazz is clearly making
 
 
transgender kids jazz is clearly making
 
 
transgender kids jazz is clearly making
a difference
 
 
a difference
 
 
a difference
and embracing the spotlight advocating
 
 
and embracing the spotlight advocating
 
 
and embracing the spotlight advocating
for transgender rights
 
 
for transgender rights
 
 
for transgender rights
receiving awards housing on the red
 
 
receiving awards housing on the red
 
 
receiving awards housing on the red
carpet
 
 
 
 
meeting stars like deborah messing and
 
 
meeting stars like deborah messing and
 
 
meeting stars like deborah messing and
riding in new york's
 
 
riding in new york's
 
 
riding in new york's
gay pride parade she's a wonderful
 
 
gay pride parade she's a wonderful
 
 
gay pride parade she's a wonderful
spokesperson
 
 
spokesperson
 
 
spokesperson
for trans kids because she's a happy
 
 
for trans kids because she's a happy
 
 
for trans kids because she's a happy
transgender kid and those two words are
 
 
transgender kid and those two words are
 
 
transgender kid and those two words are
never in the same sentence
 
 
never in the same sentence
 
 
never in the same sentence
happy but perplexed by her latest new
 
 
happy but perplexed by her latest new
 
 
happy but perplexed by her latest new
challenge
 
 
challenge
 
 
challenge
you are getting to the age jazz
 
 
you are getting to the age jazz
 
 
you are getting to the age jazz
when girls and boys date are you
 
 
when girls and boys date are you
 
 
when girls and boys date are you
attracted to girls or to boys
 
 
attracted to girls or to boys
 
 
attracted to girls or to boys
i'm attracted to boys are you afraid
 
 
i'm attracted to boys are you afraid
 
 
i'm attracted to boys are you afraid
that you might
 
 
that you might
 
 
that you might
not have dates with boys i am a little
 
 
not have dates with boys i am a little
 
 
not have dates with boys i am a little
bit
 
 
bit
 
 
bit
but if any of the boys decline me
 
 
but if any of the boys decline me
 
 
but if any of the boys decline me
because of my situation then i just know
 
 
because of my situation then i just know
 
 
because of my situation then i just know
they're not right for me at all

 
now to our other top story tonight a

 
now to our other top story tonight a

 
now to our other top story tonight a
battle over a historic ncaa win today

 
battle over a historic ncaa win today

 
battle over a historic ncaa win today
governor ron desantis declared sarasota

 
governor ron desantis declared sarasota

 
governor ron desantis declared sarasota
native emma wyant the winner of the

 
native emma wyant the winner of the

 
native emma wyant the winner of the
women's 500-meter freestyle swim even
 
 
women's 500-meter freestyle swim even
 
 
women's 500-meter freestyle swim even
though she came in second place
 
 
though she came in second place
 
 
though she came in second place
first place went to leah thomas a
 
 
first place went to leah thomas a
 
 
first place went to leah thomas a
transgender athlete
 
 
transgender athlete
 
 
transgender athlete
that takes grit that takes determination
 
 
that takes grit that takes determination
 
 
that takes grit that takes determination
and she's been an absolute superstar and
 
 
and she's been an absolute superstar and
 
 
and she's been an absolute superstar and
she had the fastest time
 
 
she had the fastest time
 
 
she had the fastest time
of any woman in college athletics
 
 
of any woman in college athletics
 
 
of any woman in college athletics
the governor argues the ncaa's rules
 
 
the governor argues the ncaa's rules
 
 
the governor argues the ncaa's rules
that allow transgender athletes to
 
 
that allow transgender athletes to
 
 
that allow transgender athletes to
compete are unfair to athletes who were
 
 
compete are unfair to athletes who were
 
 
compete are unfair to athletes who were
assigned female at birth
 
 
assigned female at birth
 
 
assigned female at birth
they are putting ideology ahead of
 
 
they are putting ideology ahead of
 
 
they are putting ideology ahead of
opportunity for women athletes
 
 
opportunity for women athletes
 
 
opportunity for women athletes
and i think that there's just some
 
 
and i think that there's just some
 
 
and i think that there's just some
people that are afraid to speak out
 
 
people that are afraid to speak out
 
 
people that are afraid to speak out
and and say what they're doing but that
 
 
and and say what they're doing but that
 
 
and and say what they're doing but that
is what they're doing
 
 
is what they're doing
 
 
is what they're doing
now keep in mind the governor's
 
 
now keep in mind the governor's
 
 
now keep in mind the governor's
proclamation doesn't change the outcome
 
 
proclamation doesn't change the outcome
 
 
proclamation doesn't change the outcome
but it is get a reaction from the lgbtq
 
 
but it is get a reaction from the lgbtq
 
 
but it is get a reaction from the lgbtq
plus community 10 tampa bay's angelina
 
 
plus community 10 tampa bay's angelina
 
 
plus community 10 tampa bay's angelina
salcido spoke to a transgender athlete
 
 
salcido spoke to a transgender athlete
 
 
salcido spoke to a transgender athlete
who says leah's win marks another
 
 
who says leah's win marks another
 
 
who says leah's win marks another
milestone for their community
 
 
milestone for their community
 
 
milestone for their community
so when i first saw it it was it was
 
 
so when i first saw it it was it was
 
 
so when i first saw it it was it was
really exciting for the first time zach
 
 
really exciting for the first time zach
 
 
really exciting for the first time zach
worms felt validated i was really
 
 
worms felt validated i was really
 
 
worms felt validated i was really
kind of shocked by the whole thing leah
 
 
kind of shocked by the whole thing leah
 
 
kind of shocked by the whole thing leah
thomas a transgender woman had become a
 
 
thomas a transgender woman had become a
 
 
thomas a transgender woman had become a
national champion winning the women's
 
 
national champion winning the women's
 
 
national champion winning the women's
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
get there and succeed and and not just
 
 
get there and succeed and and not just
 
 
get there and succeed and and not just
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as athletes that's what we're going to
 
 
as athletes that's what we're going to
 
 
as athletes that's what we're going to
do you know i think
 
 
do you know i think
 
 
do you know i think
as a trans athlete i'm very scared that
 
 
as a trans athlete i'm very scared that
 
 
as a trans athlete i'm very scared that
that's going to be a thing you know
 
 
that's going to be a thing you know
 
 
that's going to be a thing you know
competitively i don't know where i'm
 
 
competitively i don't know where i'm
 
 
competitively i don't know where i'm
going to be whenever i get to the point
 
 
going to be whenever i get to the point
 
 
going to be whenever i get to the point
where i can start playing with my gender
 
 
where i can start playing with my gender
 
 
where i can start playing with my gender
zack has played soccer her whole life
 
 
zack has played soccer her whole life
 
 
zack has played soccer her whole life
she stopped a year ago when she came out
 
 
she stopped a year ago when she came out
 
 
she stopped a year ago when she came out
as transgender while playing for the
 
 
as transgender while playing for the
 
 
as transgender while playing for the
tallahassee soccer club now she's taking
 
 
tallahassee soccer club now she's taking
 
 
tallahassee soccer club now she's taking
hormones in transitioning it's not a
 
 
hormones in transitioning it's not a
 
 
hormones in transitioning it's not a
comfortable process the entire time
 
 
comfortable process the entire time
 
 
comfortable process the entire time
our bodies
 
 
our bodies
 
 
our bodies
act a lot more likely from than body my
 
 
act a lot more likely from than body my
 
 
act a lot more likely from than body my
entire center of gravity is lowering i'm
 
 
entire center of gravity is lowering i'm
 
 
entire center of gravity is lowering i'm
storing fat in different areas my muscle
 
 
storing fat in different areas my muscle
 
 
storing fat in different areas my muscle
tone is completely dropped my muscle
 
 
tone is completely dropped my muscle
 
 
tone is completely dropped my muscle
density is completely dropped i think a
 
 
density is completely dropped i think a
 
 
density is completely dropped i think a
lot of people think that
 
 
lot of people think that
 
 
lot of people think that
you can just kind of
 
 
you can just kind of
 
 
you can just kind of
take hormones and stay jacked and you're
 
 
take hormones and stay jacked and you're
 
 
take hormones and stay jacked and you're
going to be able to to
 
 
going to be able to to
 
 
going to be able to to
stay wherever you were and it's not that
 
 
stay wherever you were and it's not that
 
 
stay wherever you were and it's not that
kind of a process like your body's
 
 
kind of a process like your body's
 
 
kind of a process like your body's
literally changing she's going through
 
 
literally changing she's going through
 
 
literally changing she's going through
the same process every transgender
 
 
the same process every transgender
 
 
the same process every transgender
athlete does to compete competitively
 
 
athlete does to compete competitively
 
 
athlete does to compete competitively
that's why thomas's win is a big deal i
 
 
that's why thomas's win is a big deal i
 
 
that's why thomas's win is a big deal i
think that it means the world
 
 
think that it means the world
 
 
think that it means the world
honestly like to to
 
 
honestly like to to
 
 
honestly like to to
if i would have seen that i think the
 
 
if i would have seen that i think the
 
 
if i would have seen that i think the
the best way to put it is if if my
 
 
the best way to put it is if if my
 
 
the best way to put it is if if my
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that it may have changed my journey one
 
 
that it may have changed my journey one
 
 
that it may have changed my journey one
hundred percent and and i think that
 
 
hundred percent and and i think that
 
 
hundred percent and and i think that
that's the most incredible thing
 
 
that's the most incredible thing
 
 
that's the most incredible thing
the ncaa's policy is only a few months
 
 
the ncaa's policy is only a few months
 
 
the ncaa's policy is only a few months
old but florida law actually bans
 
 
old but florida law actually bans
 
 
old but florida law actually bans
transgender women and girls from
 
 
transgender women and girls from
 
 
transgender women and girls from
competing on female sports teams in
 
 
competing on female sports teams in
 
 
competing on female sports teams in
public schools and colleges let's take a
 
 
public schools and colleges let's take a
 
 
public schools and colleges let's take a
deeper dive last year the governor
 
 
deeper dive last year the governor
 
 
deeper dive last year the governor
signed the fairness and women's sports
 
 
signed the fairness and women's sports
 
 
signed the fairness and women's sports
act into law under the law gender must
 
 
act into law under the law gender must
 
 
act into law under the law gender must
be confirmed by birth certificate before
 
 
be confirmed by birth certificate before
 
 
be confirmed by birth certificate before
women are allowed to compete it also
 
 
women are allowed to compete it also
 
 
women are allowed to compete it also
allows other athletes to sue schools
 
 
allows other athletes to sue schools
 
 
allows other athletes to sue schools
that allow transgender athletes to
 
 
that allow transgender athletes to
 
 
that allow transgender athletes to
participate on female teams
 
 
participate on female teams
 
 
participate on female teams
and florida isn't alone according to the
 
 
and florida isn't alone according to the
 
 
and florida isn't alone according to the
group freedom for all americans at least
 
 
group freedom for all americans at least
 
 
group freedom for all americans at least
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
screen right now introduced similar
 
 
screen right now introduced similar
 
 
screen right now introduced similar
legislation this year now not all of
 
 
legislation this year now not all of
 
 
legislation this year now not all of
them passed just today utah's governor
 
 
them passed just today utah's governor
 
 
them passed just today utah's governor
vetoed a ban on transgender athletes

 
state legislature is facing threats of

 
state legislature is facing threats of

 
state legislature is facing threats of
lawsuits and boycotts over its decision

 
lawsuits and boycotts over its decision

 
lawsuits and boycotts over its decision
to override the governor's veto of the

 
to override the governor's veto of the

 
to override the governor's veto of the
bill that bans transgender children from

 
bill that bans transgender children from

 
bill that bans transgender children from
playing school sports we do have the
 
 
playing school sports we do have the
 
 
playing school sports we do have the
vote then the utah state legislature is
 
 
vote then the utah state legislature is
 
 
vote then the utah state legislature is
expected to override the governor's veto
 
 
expected to override the governor's veto
 
 
expected to override the governor's veto
of the transgender sports bill it
 
 
of the transgender sports bill it
 
 
of the transgender sports bill it
institutes an all-out ban on transgender
 
 
institutes an all-out ban on transgender
 
 
institutes an all-out ban on transgender
children playing school sports but if
 
 
children playing school sports but if
 
 
children playing school sports but if
the state loses a lawsuit it defaults to
 
 
the state loses a lawsuit it defaults to
 
 
the state loses a lawsuit it defaults to
a special commission to determine
 
 
a special commission to determine
 
 
a special commission to determine
eligibility the lgbtq rights group
 
 
eligibility the lgbtq rights group
 
 
eligibility the lgbtq rights group
equality utah and the aclu are already
 
 
equality utah and the aclu are already
 
 
equality utah and the aclu are already
threatening a lawsuit the senate
 
 
threatening a lawsuit the senate
 
 
threatening a lawsuit the senate
president tells me he thinks utah will
 
 
president tells me he thinks utah will
 
 
president tells me he thinks utah will
be sued and will likely lose i actually
 
 
be sued and will likely lose i actually
 
 
be sued and will likely lose i actually
again believe there's a high probability
 
 
again believe there's a high probability
 
 
again believe there's a high probability
this will be enjoined or or stayed
 
 
this will be enjoined or or stayed
 
 
this will be enjoined or or stayed
and i believe the commission will
 
 
and i believe the commission will
 
 
and i believe the commission will
actually go into effect and
 
 
actually go into effect and
 
 
actually go into effect and
if those have
 
 
if those have
 
 
if those have
you know i think it's a good blend of
 
 
you know i think it's a good blend of
 
 
you know i think it's a good blend of
policy since governor spencer cox vetoed
 
 
policy since governor spencer cox vetoed
 
 
policy since governor spencer cox vetoed
the bill he's faced pushback from social
 
 
the bill he's faced pushback from social
 
 
the bill he's faced pushback from social
conservatives across the nation
 
 
conservatives across the nation
 
 
conservatives across the nation
lawmakers have also faced pressure from
 
 
lawmakers have also faced pressure from
 
 
lawmakers have also faced pressure from
republican delegates who support a ban
 
 
republican delegates who support a ban
 
 
republican delegates who support a ban
prompting many to flip their votes this
 
 
prompting many to flip their votes this
 
 
prompting many to flip their votes this
will hurt the state of utah and it's a
 
 
will hurt the state of utah and it's a
 
 
will hurt the state of utah and it's a
bad decision for our legislature the
 
 
bad decision for our legislature the
 
 
bad decision for our legislature the
mayors of salt lake city and salt lake
 
 
mayors of salt lake city and salt lake
 
 
mayors of salt lake city and salt lake
county say they have concerns about the
 
 
county say they have concerns about the
 
 
county say they have concerns about the
override i don't really see a big
 
 
override i don't really see a big
 
 
override i don't really see a big
question mark about whether or not those
 
 
question mark about whether or not those
 
 
question mark about whether or not those
repercussions will happen it's a matter
 
 
repercussions will happen it's a matter
 
 
repercussions will happen it's a matter
of which ones an analysis done by visit
 
 
of which ones an analysis done by visit
 
 
of which ones an analysis done by visit
salt lake for the county mayor's office
 
 
salt lake for the county mayor's office
 
 
salt lake for the county mayor's office
and shared with fox 13 news claims the
 
 
and shared with fox 13 news claims the
 
 
and shared with fox 13 news claims the
state could lose at least 50 million
 
 
state could lose at least 50 million
 
 
state could lose at least 50 million
dollars as a result of sports games
 
 
dollars as a result of sports games
 
 
dollars as a result of sports games
conventions and other events leaving
 
 
conventions and other events leaving
 
 
conventions and other events leaving
utah over the bill it again impacts
 
 
utah over the bill it again impacts
 
 
utah over the bill it again impacts
our youth very directly
 
 
our youth very directly
 
 
our youth very directly
and progress that i think we've made and
 
 
and progress that i think we've made and
 
 
and progress that i think we've made and
better more open understanding but i
 
 
better more open understanding but i
 
 
better more open understanding but i
also think that
 
 
also think that
 
 
also think that
we're sending a really bad signal to the
 
 
we're sending a really bad signal to the
 
 
we're sending a really bad signal to the
world on who we really are when we take
 
 
world on who we really are when we take
 
 
world on who we really are when we take
those hard lines that are hurtful i
 
 
those hard lines that are hurtful i
 
 
those hard lines that are hurtful i
haven't seen any boycotts or bands in 11
 
 
haven't seen any boycotts or bands in 11
 
 
haven't seen any boycotts or bands in 11
other states i think those involved in
 
 
other states i think those involved in
 
 
other states i think those involved in
those sporting events understand the the
 
 
those sporting events understand the the
 
 
those sporting events understand the the
significance of trying to protect
 
 
significance of trying to protect
 
 
significance of trying to protect
women's sports i want to see a trans
 
 
women's sports i want to see a trans
 
 
women's sports i want to see a trans
person on the hill the legislature's
 
 
person on the hill the legislature's
 
 
person on the hill the legislature's
bills on this have prompted one trans
 
 
bills on this have prompted one trans
 
 
bills on this have prompted one trans
person to run for office we see bills
 
 
person to run for office we see bills
 
 
person to run for office we see bills
like this come to the legislature
 
 
like this come to the legislature
 
 
like this come to the legislature
every year community activist sophia has
 
 
every year community activist sophia has
 
 
every year community activist sophia has
tingey is running as a democrat for a
 
 
tingey is running as a democrat for a
 
 
tingey is running as a democrat for a
house seat representing west valley city
 
 
house seat representing west valley city
 
 
house seat representing west valley city
she says house bill 11 invalidates trans
 
 
she says house bill 11 invalidates trans
 
 
she says house bill 11 invalidates trans
children i think we just need a
 
 
children i think we just need a
 
 
children i think we just need a
fundamental
 
 
fundamental
 
 
fundamental
change on the hill with regards to how
 
 
change on the hill with regards to how
 
 
change on the hill with regards to how
we treat the
 
 
we treat the
 
 
we treat the
treat bills that are impacting people
 
 
treat bills that are impacting people
 
 
treat bills that are impacting people
and make sure those people
 
 
and make sure those people
 
 
and make sure those people
right actually are heard up on the hill
 
 
right actually are heard up on the hill
 
 
right actually are heard up on the hill
no matter the issue the special session
 
 
no matter the issue the special session
 
 
no matter the issue the special session
to override the governor's veto begins
 
 
to override the governor's veto begins
 
 
to override the governor's veto begins
on friday now i'm told some lawmakers
 
 
on friday now i'm told some lawmakers
 
 
on friday now i'm told some lawmakers
are already planning their own
 
 
are already planning their own
 
 
are already planning their own
substitutions and floor amendments so it
 
 
substitutions and floor amendments so it
 
 
substitutions and floor amendments so it
could be a battle on the floors of the
 
 
could be a battle on the floors of the
 
 
could be a battle on the floors of the
house and the senate
 
 
house and the senate
 
 
house and the senate
on the hill ben winslow fox 13 news utah
 
 
on the hill ben winslow fox 13 news utah
 
 
on the hill ben winslow fox 13 news utah
one of hosting's democratic primary
 
 
one of hosting's democratic primary
 
 
one of hosting's democratic primary
challengers also opposes the veto
 
 
challengers also opposes the veto
 
 
challengers also opposes the veto
override fatima deary says with only
 
 
override fatima deary says with only
 
 
override fatima deary says with only
four of 75 000 school athletes
 
 
four of 75 000 school athletes
 
 
four of 75 000 school athletes
identifying as transgender this isn't
 
 
identifying as transgender this isn't
 
 
identifying as transgender this isn't
just a misguided attack on young people
 
 
just a misguided attack on young people
 
 
just a misguided attack on young people
just trying to get by
 
 
just trying to get by
 
 
just trying to get by
it's an assault on the lgbtq plus
 
 
it's an assault on the lgbtq plus
 
 
it's an assault on the lgbtq plus
community

 
yeah we're here inside the senate

 
yeah we're here inside the senate

 
yeah we're here inside the senate
chamber where the special session just

 
chamber where the special session just

 
chamber where the special session just
wrapped up the house and senate voted to

 
wrapped up the house and senate voted to

 
wrapped up the house and senate voted to
override governor spencer cox's veto

 
override governor spencer cox's veto

 
override governor spencer cox's veto
they flipped enough votes so the house
 
 
they flipped enough votes so the house
 
 
they flipped enough votes so the house
voted 56 to 18
 
 
voted 56 to 18
 
 
voted 56 to 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
finished meeting in special session to
 
 
finished meeting in special session to
 
 
finished meeting in special session to
pass a bill that gives legal
 
 
pass a bill that gives legal
 
 
pass a bill that gives legal
indemnification for local school
 
 
indemnification for local school
 
 
indemnification for local school
districts as well as the state's high
 
 
districts as well as the state's high
 
 
districts as well as the state's high
school activities association from
 
 
school activities association from
 
 
school activities association from
inevitable lawsuits and i have been told
 
 
inevitable lawsuits and i have been told
 
 
inevitable lawsuits and i have been told
by the aclu that a lawsuit will be filed
 
 
by the aclu that a lawsuit will be filed
 
 
by the aclu that a lawsuit will be filed
against the state over the ban now the
 
 
against the state over the ban now the
 
 
against the state over the ban now the
bill now bans transgender children from
 
 
bill now bans transgender children from
 
 
bill now bans transgender children from
participating in public school sports
 
 
participating in public school sports
 
 
participating in public school sports
but in the event that utah loses a
 
 
but in the event that utah loses a
 
 
but in the event that utah loses a
lawsuit it would default to a special
 
 
lawsuit it would default to a special
 
 
lawsuit it would default to a special
commission that would determine if a
 
 
commission that would determine if a
 
 
commission that would determine if a
child can play a sport consistent with
 
 
child can play a sport consistent with
 
 
child can play a sport consistent with
their gender identity you'll recall
 
 
their gender identity you'll recall
 
 
their gender identity you'll recall
governor spencer cox vetoed the bill
 
 
governor spencer cox vetoed the bill
 
 
governor spencer cox vetoed the bill
arguing it harmed already vulnerable
 
 
arguing it harmed already vulnerable
 
 
arguing it harmed already vulnerable
transgender children and that there were
 
 
transgender children and that there were
 
 
transgender children and that there were
no legal protections offered to school
 
 
no legal protections offered to school
 
 
no legal protections offered to school
districts who would get sued but
 
 
districts who would get sued but
 
 
districts who would get sued but
lawmakers have been facing pressure from
 
 
lawmakers have been facing pressure from
 
 
lawmakers have been facing pressure from
delegates as they head into some tough
 
 
delegates as they head into some tough
 
 
delegates as they head into some tough
re-election fights a lot of people
 
 
re-election fights a lot of people
 
 
re-election fights a lot of people
calling for an override and today we
 
 
calling for an override and today we
 
 
calling for an override and today we
heard some passionate speeches on the
 
 
heard some passionate speeches on the
 
 
heard some passionate speeches on the
floor of the house and senate over the
 
 
floor of the house and senate over the
 
 
floor of the house and senate over the
bill some accusing their colleagues of
 
 
bill some accusing their colleagues of
 
 
bill some accusing their colleagues of
playing politics with children while
 
 
playing politics with children while
 
 
playing politics with children while
others say that they're standing up for
 
 
others say that they're standing up for
 
 
others say that they're standing up for
children and girls sports
 
 
children and girls sports
 
 
children and girls sports
today's legislation before us
 
 
today's legislation before us
 
 
today's legislation before us
is very simple
 
 
is very simple
 
 
is very simple
and i will just repeat it one more time
 
 
and i will just repeat it one more time
 
 
and i will just repeat it one more time
it preserves the integrity of women's
 
 
it preserves the integrity of women's
 
 
it preserves the integrity of women's
sports
 
 
sports
 
 
sports
the message we come out with
 
 
the message we come out with
 
 
the message we come out with
as members
 
 
as members
 
 
as members
of the house
 
 
of the house
 
 
of the house
as leaders of our state
 
 
as leaders of our state
 
 
as leaders of our state
can be one of
 
 
can be one of
 
 
can be one of
well obviously the
 
 
well obviously the
 
 
well obviously the
capitol hill doesn't care about you or
 
 
capitol hill doesn't care about you or
 
 
capitol hill doesn't care about you or
it can be hey we care about all children
 
 
it can be hey we care about all children
 
 
it can be hey we care about all children
we care about all of our female athletes
 
 
we care about all of our female athletes
 
 
we care about all of our female athletes
and we will not just say that we support
 
 
and we will not just say that we support
 
 
and we will not just say that we support
transgender youth but we will go to work
 
 
transgender youth but we will go to work
 
 
transgender youth but we will go to work
and go to bat for you on so many issues
 
 
and go to bat for you on so many issues
 
 
and go to bat for you on so many issues
that this issue will be something of the
 
 
that this issue will be something of the
 
 
that this issue will be something of the
past
 
 
 
 
now in a statement governor spencer cox
 
 
now in a statement governor spencer cox
 
 
now in a statement governor spencer cox
reacted to the vote saying i am grateful
 
 
reacted to the vote saying i am grateful
 
 
reacted to the vote saying i am grateful
the legislature react recognized that
 
 
the legislature react recognized that
 
 
the legislature react recognized that
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
input that legislators were able to
 
 
input that legislators were able to
 
 
input that legislators were able to
receive over the last few weeks i called
 
 
receive over the last few weeks i called
 
 
receive over the last few weeks i called
a special session today to fix at least
 
 
a special session today to fix at least
 
 
a special session today to fix at least
one flaw in the bill and were heartened
 
 
one flaw in the bill and were heartened
 
 
one flaw in the bill and were heartened
that the legislature agreed to indemnify
 
 
that the legislature agreed to indemnify
 
 
that the legislature agreed to indemnify
school districts and the utah high
 
 
school districts and the utah high
 
 
school districts and the utah high
school activities association from the
 
 
school activities association from the
 
 
school activities association from the
enormous financial burden that
 
 
enormous financial burden that
 
 
enormous financial burden that
inevitable litigation will have on them
 
 
inevitable litigation will have on them
 
 
inevitable litigation will have on them
i remain hopeful that we will continue
 
 
i remain hopeful that we will continue
 
 
i remain hopeful that we will continue
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
 
 
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
 
 
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
compassionate policy during the interim
 
 
compassionate policy during the interim
 
 
compassionate policy during the interim
again i am told that a lawsuit is likely
 
 
again i am told that a lawsuit is likely
 
 
again i am told that a lawsuit is likely
at a news conference a short time ago
 
 
at a news conference a short time ago
 
 
at a news conference a short time ago
house and senate leaders
 
 
house and senate leaders
 
 
house and senate leaders
seemed undeterred saying that they
 
 
seemed undeterred saying that they
 
 
seemed undeterred saying that they
expect it and that they are prepared for
 
 
expect it and that they are prepared for
 
 
expect it and that they are prepared for
it live on the hill ben winslow fox 13
 
 
it live on the hill ben winslow fox 13
 
 
it live on the hill ben winslow fox 13
news utah

 
after a heated debate on utah's capitol

 
after a heated debate on utah's capitol

 
after a heated debate on utah's capitol
hill today state lawmakers banned

 
hill today state lawmakers banned

 
hill today state lawmakers banned
transgender athletes from girls sports

 
transgender athletes from girls sports

 
transgender athletes from girls sports
in utah schools despite governor spencer

 
in utah schools despite governor spencer

 
in utah schools despite governor spencer
cox's veto we have team coverage of this
 
 
cox's veto we have team coverage of this
 
 
cox's veto we have team coverage of this
developing story tonight starting with
 
 
developing story tonight starting with
 
 
developing story tonight starting with
fox 13 news political reporter ben
 
 
fox 13 news political reporter ben
 
 
fox 13 news political reporter ben
winslow
 
 
winslow
 
 
winslow
the house and senate flipped enough
 
 
the house and senate flipped enough
 
 
the house and senate flipped enough
votes to override the governor's veto
 
 
votes to override the governor's veto
 
 
votes to override the governor's veto
now a lawsuit is expected over the
 
 
now a lawsuit is expected over the
 
 
now a lawsuit is expected over the
legislature's actions i think utah is in
 
 
legislature's actions i think utah is in
 
 
legislature's actions i think utah is in
a very unique situation lawmakers voted
 
 
a very unique situation lawmakers voted
 
 
a very unique situation lawmakers voted
to override governor spencer cox's veto
 
 
to override governor spencer cox's veto
 
 
to override governor spencer cox's veto
of the bill banning transgender children
 
 
of the bill banning transgender children
 
 
of the bill banning transgender children
from playing school sports it preserves
 
 
from playing school sports it preserves
 
 
from playing school sports it preserves
the integrity of women's sports if it
 
 
the integrity of women's sports if it
 
 
the integrity of women's sports if it
were about fairness we wouldn't have
 
 
were about fairness we wouldn't have
 
 
were about fairness we wouldn't have
passed this version in the last hours of
 
 
passed this version in the last hours of
 
 
passed this version in the last hours of
the session without any public comment i
 
 
the session without any public comment i
 
 
the session without any public comment i
don't believe anybody wants children to
 
 
don't believe anybody wants children to
 
 
don't believe anybody wants children to
die facing some re-election challenges
 
 
die facing some re-election challenges
 
 
die facing some re-election challenges
and pressure from social conservatives
 
 
and pressure from social conservatives
 
 
and pressure from social conservatives
many lawmakers flipped their votes it's
 
 
many lawmakers flipped their votes it's
 
 
many lawmakers flipped their votes it's
a political theater and it makes me sad
 
 
a political theater and it makes me sad
 
 
a political theater and it makes me sad
to think that this is why we're here we
 
 
to think that this is why we're here we
 
 
to think that this is why we're here we
also harm the trans community one
 
 
also harm the trans community one
 
 
also harm the trans community one
senator refused to vote to override
 
 
senator refused to vote to override
 
 
senator refused to vote to override
saying it may cost him his political
 
 
saying it may cost him his political
 
 
saying it may cost him his political
career and if i lose my race
 
 
career and if i lose my race
 
 
career and if i lose my race
then i lose my race standing for what i
 
 
then i lose my race standing for what i
 
 
then i lose my race standing for what i
believe in like i always have on the
 
 
believe in like i always have on the
 
 
believe in like i always have on the
last night of the legislative session
 
 
last night of the legislative session
 
 
last night of the legislative session
lawmakers passed a ban but in the event
 
 
lawmakers passed a ban but in the event
 
 
lawmakers passed a ban but in the event
of a lawsuit it reverts to a special
 
 
of a lawsuit it reverts to a special
 
 
of a lawsuit it reverts to a special
commission to evaluate whether a
 
 
commission to evaluate whether a
 
 
commission to evaluate whether a
transgender child can play a sport
 
 
transgender child can play a sport
 
 
transgender child can play a sport
consistent with their gender identity
 
 
consistent with their gender identity
 
 
consistent with their gender identity
the governor vetoed the bill arguing it
 
 
the governor vetoed the bill arguing it
 
 
the governor vetoed the bill arguing it
harms already vulnerable transgender
 
 
harms already vulnerable transgender
 
 
harms already vulnerable transgender
children and leaves school districts
 
 
children and leaves school districts
 
 
children and leaves school districts
open to lawsuits i don't think it's fair
 
 
open to lawsuits i don't think it's fair
 
 
open to lawsuits i don't think it's fair
to the taxpayer because they are still
 
 
to the taxpayer because they are still
 
 
to the taxpayer because they are still
on the hook i would i lawmakers
 
 
on the hook i would i lawmakers
 
 
on the hook i would i lawmakers
addressed that in a special session
 
 
addressed that in a special session
 
 
addressed that in a special session
approving 500 000 for legal bills the
 
 
approving 500 000 for legal bills the
 
 
approving 500 000 for legal bills the
aclu tells fox 13 it will sue utah over
 
 
aclu tells fox 13 it will sue utah over
 
 
aclu tells fox 13 it will sue utah over
the ban our intent here is to protect
 
 
the ban our intent here is to protect
 
 
the ban our intent here is to protect
women's sports and keep women's sports
 
 
women's sports and keep women's sports
 
 
women's sports and keep women's sports
safe and competitive republican leaders
 
 
safe and competitive republican leaders
 
 
safe and competitive republican leaders
on capitol hill expect it we're
 
 
on capitol hill expect it we're
 
 
on capitol hill expect it we're
anticipating that the bill's sponsor
 
 
anticipating that the bill's sponsor
 
 
anticipating that the bill's sponsor
pushed back on claims she's picking on
 
 
pushed back on claims she's picking on
 
 
pushed back on claims she's picking on
transgender children the state i feel
 
 
transgender children the state i feel
 
 
transgender children the state i feel
like we've done a really good job of
 
 
like we've done a really good job of
 
 
like we've done a really good job of
trying to help and support these kids
 
 
trying to help and support these kids
 
 
trying to help and support these kids
however
 
 
however
 
 
however
somebody identifying as a girl
 
 
somebody identifying as a girl
 
 
somebody identifying as a girl
i don't believe based on that alone
 
 
i don't believe based on that alone
 
 
i don't believe based on that alone
should give them the opportunity to deny
 
 
should give them the opportunity to deny
 
 
should give them the opportunity to deny
their rights and opportunities from
 
 
their rights and opportunities from
 
 
their rights and opportunities from
another girl in a statement the governor
 
 
another girl in a statement the governor
 
 
another girl in a statement the governor
reacted to the votes saying i am
 
 
reacted to the votes saying i am
 
 
reacted to the votes saying i am
grateful the legislature recognized that
 
 
grateful the legislature recognized that
 
 
grateful the legislature recognized that
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
there were serious flaws with house bill
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
input that legislators were able to
 
 
input that legislators were able to
 
 
input that legislators were able to
receive over the past few weeks i called
 
 
receive over the past few weeks i called
 
 
receive over the past few weeks i called
a special session to fix at least one
 
 
a special session to fix at least one
 
 
a special session to fix at least one
flaw in the bill and were heartened that
 
 
flaw in the bill and were heartened that
 
 
flaw in the bill and were heartened that
the legislature agreed to indemnify
 
 
the legislature agreed to indemnify
 
 
the legislature agreed to indemnify
school districts and the utah high
 
 
school districts and the utah high
 
 
school districts and the utah high
school activities association from the
 
 
school activities association from the
 
 
school activities association from the
enormous financial burden that
 
 
enormous financial burden that
 
 
enormous financial burden that
inevitable litigation will have on them
 
 
inevitable litigation will have on them
 
 
inevitable litigation will have on them
i remain hopeful that we will continue
 
 
i remain hopeful that we will continue
 
 
i remain hopeful that we will continue
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
 
 
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
 
 
to work toward a more inclusive fair and
compassionate policy during the interim
 
 
compassionate policy during the interim
 
 
compassionate policy during the interim
on the hill ben winslow fox 13 news utah

 

 

 
the principal vice principals

 
the principal vice principals

 
the principal vice principals
like your masters they all like knew me

 
like your masters they all like knew me

 
like your masters they all like knew me
my face and name

 
my face and name

 
my face and name
and they all knew that i was trans
 
 
and they all knew that i was trans
 
 
and they all knew that i was trans
 
 
 
 
i am aware that a lot of them are
 
 
i am aware that a lot of them are
 
 
i am aware that a lot of them are
extremely transphobic
 
 
extremely transphobic
 
 
extremely transphobic
at that time right if you come out as
 
 
at that time right if you come out as
 
 
at that time right if you come out as
trans right you will kick off school you
 
 
trans right you will kick off school you
 
 
trans right you will kick off school you
beat that out of your house
 
 
beat that out of your house
 
 
beat that out of your house
most of the drop would naturally drop
 
 
most of the drop would naturally drop
 
 
most of the drop would naturally drop
out of school because we need to find a
 
 
out of school because we need to find a
 
 
out of school because we need to find a
job
 
 
job
 
 
job
to pay our rent to pay for food
 
 
to pay our rent to pay for food
 
 
to pay our rent to pay for food
everything zero family apart
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
singapore is one of the few countries in
 
 
singapore is one of the few countries in
 
 
singapore is one of the few countries in
southeast asia
 
 
southeast asia
 
 
southeast asia
that allows for the change of legal
 
 
that allows for the change of legal
 
 
that allows for the change of legal
gender marker
 
 
gender marker
 
 
gender marker
but this requires major operations
 
 
but this requires major operations
 
 
but this requires major operations
including sterilization and genital
 
 
including sterilization and genital
 
 
including sterilization and genital
surgery
 
 
surgery
 
 
surgery
with huge medical risks and financial
 
 
with huge medical risks and financial
 
 
with huge medical risks and financial
costs
 
 
costs
 
 
costs
trans people in singapore who do not
 
 
trans people in singapore who do not
 
 
trans people in singapore who do not
undergo these surgeries
 
 
undergo these surgeries
 
 
undergo these surgeries
are thus living as one sex while legally
 
 
are thus living as one sex while legally
 
 
are thus living as one sex while legally
another
 
 
another
 
 
another
affecting their ability to get married
 
 
affecting their ability to get married
 
 
affecting their ability to get married
or even access health care
 
 
or even access health care
 
 
or even access health care
and education as a trans man who grew up
 
 
and education as a trans man who grew up
 
 
and education as a trans man who grew up
in singapore in the 90s and early 2000s
 
 
in singapore in the 90s and early 2000s
 
 
in singapore in the 90s and early 2000s
i have experienced how limiting these
 
 
i have experienced how limiting these
 
 
i have experienced how limiting these
legislations can be
 
 
legislations can be
 
 
legislations can be
for transgender persons like myself the
 
 
for transgender persons like myself the
 
 
for transgender persons like myself the
discrimination and challenges that i
 
 
discrimination and challenges that i
 
 
discrimination and challenges that i
faced
 
 
faced
 
 
faced
drove me to become a trans advocate and
 
 
drove me to become a trans advocate and
 
 
drove me to become a trans advocate and
make actionable changes for others in
 
 
make actionable changes for others in
 
 
make actionable changes for others in
the community
 
 
the community
 
 
the community
in a recent report that i worked on with
 
 
in a recent report that i worked on with
 
 
in a recent report that i worked on with
transgender sg
 
 
transgender sg
 
 
transgender sg
almost 78 of openly transgender students
 
 
almost 78 of openly transgender students
 
 
almost 78 of openly transgender students
reported negative experiences ranging
 
 
reported negative experiences ranging
 
 
reported negative experiences ranging
from bullying
 
 
from bullying
 
 
from bullying
to sexual abuse and two-thirds of them
 
 
to sexual abuse and two-thirds of them
 
 
to sexual abuse and two-thirds of them
felt unsafe in schools in this episode
 
 
felt unsafe in schools in this episode
 
 
felt unsafe in schools in this episode
of rainbow guide to life
 
 
of rainbow guide to life
 
 
of rainbow guide to life
i want to find out from other trans
 
 
i want to find out from other trans
 
 
i want to find out from other trans
students about their growing up
 
 
students about their growing up
 
 
students about their growing up
experiences in singapore school system
 
 
experiences in singapore school system
 
 
experiences in singapore school system
what issues are they facing and how can
 
 
what issues are they facing and how can
 
 
what issues are they facing and how can
we better support their schooling
 
 
we better support their schooling
 
 
we better support their schooling
 
 
 
 
hi my name is chris my pronouns are he
 
 
hi my name is chris my pronouns are he
 
 
hi my name is chris my pronouns are he
him i'm a documentary filmmaker and
 
 
him i'm a documentary filmmaker and
 
 
him i'm a documentary filmmaker and
trans human rights advocate
 
 
trans human rights advocate
 
 
trans human rights advocate
 
 
 
 
i only identified as transgender when i
 
 
i only identified as transgender when i
 
 
i only identified as transgender when i
was 16 years old because that's when i
 
 
was 16 years old because that's when i
 
 
was 16 years old because that's when i
first heard of the word
 
 
first heard of the word
 
 
first heard of the word
but when i was five i already knew that
 
 
but when i was five i already knew that
 
 
but when i was five i already knew that
i was a boy
 
 
 
 
when i was 16 i googled lgbt and for the
 
 
when i was 16 i googled lgbt and for the
 
 
when i was 16 i googled lgbt and for the
first time i found a word that i felt
 
 
first time i found a word that i felt
 
 
first time i found a word that i felt
described my identity which was
 
 
described my identity which was
 
 
described my identity which was
transgender
 
 
transgender
 
 
transgender
and before that my understanding of that
 
 
and before that my understanding of that
 
 
and before that my understanding of that
word had always only been from the media
 
 
word had always only been from the media
 
 
word had always only been from the media
where it was always like trans women
 
 
where it was always like trans women
 
 
where it was always like trans women
only you know i was i was the very first
 
 
only you know i was i was the very first
 
 
only you know i was i was the very first
trans
 
 
trans
 
 
trans
man that i knew for a very long time
 
 
man that i knew for a very long time
 
 
man that i knew for a very long time
i actually started socially
 
 
i actually started socially
 
 
i actually started socially
transitioning along with my medical
 
 
transitioning along with my medical
 
 
transitioning along with my medical
transition when i was
 
 
transition when i was
 
 
transition when i was
about to enter university i suddenly
 
 
about to enter university i suddenly
 
 
about to enter university i suddenly
changed my pronouns and i started taking
 
 
changed my pronouns and i started taking
 
 
changed my pronouns and i started taking
hormones
 
 
hormones
 
 
hormones
when i left secondary school i made a
 
 
when i left secondary school i made a
 
 
when i left secondary school i made a
very conscious choice to go to
 
 
very conscious choice to go to
 
 
very conscious choice to go to
polytechnic as well
 
 
polytechnic as well
 
 
polytechnic as well
where i knew that i wouldn't have to
 
 
where i knew that i wouldn't have to
 
 
where i knew that i wouldn't have to
face issues with uniforms it was a very
 
 
face issues with uniforms it was a very
 
 
face issues with uniforms it was a very
conscious decision
 
 
conscious decision
 
 
conscious decision
but i also know that not many people
 
 
but i also know that not many people
 
 
but i also know that not many people
that i know who are trans have had same
 
 
that i know who are trans have had same
 
 
that i know who are trans have had same
experience
 
 
experience
 
 
experience
official government policies in
 
 
official government policies in
 
 
official government policies in
singapore state that students can only
 
 
singapore state that students can only
 
 
singapore state that students can only
wear the uniform matching their legal
 
 
wear the uniform matching their legal
 
 
wear the uniform matching their legal
gender marker
 
 
gender marker
 
 
gender marker
but they can only change their legal
 
 
but they can only change their legal
 
 
but they can only change their legal
gender marker after sex reassignment
 
 
gender marker after sex reassignment
 
 
gender marker after sex reassignment
surgery
 
 
surgery
 
 
surgery
a step most trans teens are not prepared
 
 
a step most trans teens are not prepared
 
 
a step most trans teens are not prepared
to take at this age to better understand
 
 
to take at this age to better understand
 
 
to take at this age to better understand
what trans students face in singapore
 
 
what trans students face in singapore
 
 
what trans students face in singapore
i am going to meet kaiden who shares
 
 
i am going to meet kaiden who shares
 
 
i am going to meet kaiden who shares
with me his difficulties
 
 
with me his difficulties
 
 
with me his difficulties
coming out in school so what are we
 
 
coming out in school so what are we
 
 
coming out in school so what are we
doing in this neighborhood
 
 
doing in this neighborhood
 
 
doing in this neighborhood
well we are here visiting my old
 
 
well we are here visiting my old
 
 
well we are here visiting my old
secondary school
 
 
secondary school
 
 
secondary school
it's it's been a while since i came back
 
 
it's it's been a while since i came back
 
 
it's it's been a while since i came back
here
 
 
here
 
 
here
when uh how old are you now i'm 17
 
 
when uh how old are you now i'm 17
 
 
when uh how old are you now i'm 17
turning 18. and you left twin
 
 
turning 18. and you left twin
 
 
turning 18. and you left twin
uh midway through 2019 uh my secondary
 
 
uh midway through 2019 uh my secondary
 
 
uh midway through 2019 uh my secondary
for all year
 
 
for all year
 
 
for all year
so almost two years then i guess it's
 
 
so almost two years then i guess it's
 
 
so almost two years then i guess it's
almost two years yeah
 
 
 
 
so tell me what happened to you in
 
 
so tell me what happened to you in
 
 
so tell me what happened to you in
secondary school
 
 
secondary school
 
 
secondary school
well secondary school was pretty
 
 
well secondary school was pretty
 
 
well secondary school was pretty
questionable for me
 
 
questionable for me
 
 
questionable for me
i came out in secondary one during
 
 
i came out in secondary one during
 
 
i came out in secondary one during
orientation
 
 
orientation
 
 
orientation
and from then onwards a lot of people
 
 
and from then onwards a lot of people
 
 
and from then onwards a lot of people
seem to ostracize me i guess it's
 
 
seem to ostracize me i guess it's
 
 
seem to ostracize me i guess it's
because they didn't really know what to
 
 
because they didn't really know what to
 
 
because they didn't really know what to
do or maybe just because they're
 
 
do or maybe just because they're
 
 
do or maybe just because they're
transphobic
 
 
transphobic
 
 
transphobic
i like to say that like the students or
 
 
i like to say that like the students or
 
 
i like to say that like the students or
wasn't the teachers but not
 
 
wasn't the teachers but not
 
 
wasn't the teachers but not
the teachers were way worse than the
 
 
the teachers were way worse than the
 
 
the teachers were way worse than the
students in terms of
 
 
students in terms of
 
 
students in terms of
harassment and bullying
 
 
 
 
in secondary one my co-form teacher
 
 
in secondary one my co-form teacher
 
 
in secondary one my co-form teacher
asked me to sit at the back of the hall
 
 
asked me to sit at the back of the hall
 
 
asked me to sit at the back of the hall
with multiple
 
 
with multiple
 
 
with multiple
tables and benches and then she sat
 
 
tables and benches and then she sat
 
 
tables and benches and then she sat
across me
 
 
across me
 
 
across me
and for some reason i have no idea why
 
 
and for some reason i have no idea why
 
 
and for some reason i have no idea why
she just started like
 
 
she just started like
 
 
she just started like
looking at me and then repeating my dead
 
 
looking at me and then repeating my dead
 
 
looking at me and then repeating my dead
name over and over and over again for a
 
 
name over and over and over again for a
 
 
name over and over and over again for a
couple minutes and every time i seemed
 
 
couple minutes and every time i seemed
 
 
couple minutes and every time i seemed
agitated
 
 
agitated
 
 
agitated
she'd just be like oh no you just have
 
 
she'd just be like oh no you just have
 
 
she'd just be like oh no you just have
to get used to it you're going to be
 
 
to get used to it you're going to be
 
 
to get used to it you're going to be
called this for the rest of your life
 
 
called this for the rest of your life
 
 
called this for the rest of your life
anyway
 
 
anyway
 
 
anyway
i don't think i told like any teacher
 
 
i don't think i told like any teacher
 
 
i don't think i told like any teacher
about it what am i supposed to do that
 
 
about it what am i supposed to do that
 
 
about it what am i supposed to do that
was a teacher
 
 
was a teacher
 
 
was a teacher
harassing me so how do you feel coming
 
 
harassing me so how do you feel coming
 
 
harassing me so how do you feel coming
back here
 
 
back here
 
 
back here
it just feels kind of weird not gonna
 
 
it just feels kind of weird not gonna
 
 
it just feels kind of weird not gonna
lie because
 
 
lie because
 
 
lie because
i've already left the school i'm no
 
 
i've already left the school i'm no
 
 
i've already left the school i'm no
longer a student here
 
 
longer a student here
 
 
longer a student here
and especially because i don't really
 
 
and especially because i don't really
 
 
and especially because i don't really
come like around this neighborhood often
 
 
come like around this neighborhood often
 
 
come like around this neighborhood often
not being a student here and being in
 
 
not being a student here and being in
 
 
not being a student here and being in
such close proximity to school
 
 
such close proximity to school
 
 
such close proximity to school
feels quite weird like i don't really
 
 
feels quite weird like i don't really
 
 
feels quite weird like i don't really
have any
 
 
have any
 
 
have any
strong feelings when looking at this
 
 
strong feelings when looking at this
 
 
strong feelings when looking at this
school especially because
 
 
school especially because
 
 
school especially because
i've been back here quite a few times
 
 
i've been back here quite a few times
 
 
i've been back here quite a few times
since i left
 
 
since i left
 
 
since i left
beyond the bullying there was another
 
 
beyond the bullying there was another
 
 
beyond the bullying there was another
issue that was causing caden mental
 
 
issue that was causing caden mental
 
 
issue that was causing caden mental
distress
 
 
distress
 
 
distress
daily having to wear a skirt to school
 
 
daily having to wear a skirt to school
 
 
daily having to wear a skirt to school
 
 
 
 
there was like once i randomly tried to
 
 
there was like once i randomly tried to
 
 
there was like once i randomly tried to
wear
 
 
wear
 
 
wear
the male uniform to school everything
 
 
the male uniform to school everything
 
 
the male uniform to school everything
went fine until like
 
 
went fine until like
 
 
went fine until like
like the discipline mistress uh saw it
 
 
like the discipline mistress uh saw it
 
 
like the discipline mistress uh saw it
and then she confiscated depends on me
 
 
and then she confiscated depends on me
 
 
and then she confiscated depends on me
and she always said that she'd return it
 
 
and she always said that she'd return it
 
 
and she always said that she'd return it
and she never did
 
 
and she never did
 
 
and she never did
why was it so important for you to be
 
 
why was it so important for you to be
 
 
why was it so important for you to be
allowed to wear the uniform of your
 
 
allowed to wear the uniform of your
 
 
allowed to wear the uniform of your
choice
 
 
choice
 
 
choice
in general with the female uniform i've
 
 
in general with the female uniform i've
 
 
in general with the female uniform i've
always felt like
 
 
always felt like
 
 
always felt like
uncomfortable and out of my skin it felt
 
 
uncomfortable and out of my skin it felt
 
 
uncomfortable and out of my skin it felt
weird
 
 
weird
 
 
weird
but there was a discomfort in the back
 
 
but there was a discomfort in the back
 
 
but there was a discomfort in the back
of my mind at all points of time
 
 
of my mind at all points of time
 
 
of my mind at all points of time
and i never really knew how out of
 
 
and i never really knew how out of
 
 
and i never really knew how out of
it it was until i tried on the male
 
 
it it was until i tried on the male
 
 
it it was until i tried on the male
uniform at one time
 
 
uniform at one time
 
 
uniform at one time
one of my friends said in sight one
 
 
one of my friends said in sight one
 
 
one of my friends said in sight one
during the first week of sight one she
 
 
during the first week of sight one she
 
 
during the first week of sight one she
saw me walking around and she
 
 
saw me walking around and she
 
 
saw me walking around and she
immediately could pick me out from the
 
 
immediately could pick me out from the
 
 
immediately could pick me out from the
crowd
 
 
crowd
 
 
crowd
because of how uncomfortable i look when
 
 
because of how uncomfortable i look when
 
 
because of how uncomfortable i look when
you become and how out of place i look
 
 
you become and how out of place i look
 
 
you become and how out of place i look
so i'd say like arguably wearing the
 
 
so i'd say like arguably wearing the
 
 
so i'd say like arguably wearing the
wearing the male uniform would have made
 
 
wearing the male uniform would have made
 
 
wearing the male uniform would have made
me stand out less than
 
 
me stand out less than
 
 
me stand out less than
wearing the female what do you think
 
 
wearing the female what do you think
 
 
wearing the female what do you think
should be done
 
 
should be done
 
 
should be done
to protect transgender students at
 
 
to protect transgender students at
 
 
to protect transgender students at
schools teachers
 
 
schools teachers
 
 
schools teachers
have to be trained in how to handle uh
 
 
have to be trained in how to handle uh
 
 
have to be trained in how to handle uh
students who are transgender they need
 
 
students who are transgender they need
 
 
students who are transgender they need
to be rules
 
 
to be rules
 
 
to be rules
rules set into place to make sure that
 
 
rules set into place to make sure that
 
 
rules set into place to make sure that
transphobia and homophobia
 
 
transphobia and homophobia
 
 
transphobia and homophobia
and all these kinds of things will not
 
 
and all these kinds of things will not
 
 
and all these kinds of things will not
be tolerated in the system
 
 
be tolerated in the system
 
 
be tolerated in the system
because like it was never exclusively
 
 
because like it was never exclusively
 
 
because like it was never exclusively
stated there that oh
 
 
stated there that oh
 
 
stated there that oh
transphobia has to be met with
 
 
transphobia has to be met with
 
 
transphobia has to be met with
consequences
 
 
 
 
i can't understand emily's whole point
 
 
i can't understand emily's whole point
 
 
i can't understand emily's whole point
in having uniformity
 
 
in having uniformity
 
 
in having uniformity
however when a rule gets to the point
 
 
however when a rule gets to the point
 
 
however when a rule gets to the point
where it harms people's mental health
 
 
where it harms people's mental health
 
 
where it harms people's mental health
and mental stability
 
 
and mental stability
 
 
and mental stability
i think that it really has to be
 
 
i think that it really has to be
 
 
i think that it really has to be
reconsidered
 
 
reconsidered
 
 
reconsidered
 
 
 
 
in action on the part of the school
 
 
in action on the part of the school
 
 
in action on the part of the school
authorities let some members of the
 
 
authorities let some members of the
 
 
authorities let some members of the
lgbtq community
 
 
lgbtq community
 
 
lgbtq community
to protest outside singapore's ministry
 
 
to protest outside singapore's ministry
 
 
to protest outside singapore's ministry
of education
 
 
of education
 
 
of education
calling for change in official policies
 
 
calling for change in official policies
 
 
calling for change in official policies
loom is one of them hello
 
 
loom is one of them hello
 
 
loom is one of them hello
hello hey chris
 
 
 
 
public demonstrations like this are
 
 
public demonstrations like this are
 
 
public demonstrations like this are
illegal without a police
 
 
illegal without a police
 
 
illegal without a police
permit in singapore despite the risk
 
 
permit in singapore despite the risk
 
 
permit in singapore despite the risk
they went ahead what was the protest
 
 
they went ahead what was the protest
 
 
they went ahead what was the protest
about many of us were inspired to do it
 
 
about many of us were inspired to do it
 
 
about many of us were inspired to do it
because of what happened on reddit
 
 
because of what happened on reddit
 
 
because of what happened on reddit
which was prior to the protest there was
 
 
which was prior to the protest there was
 
 
which was prior to the protest there was
a junior college student
 
 
a junior college student
 
 
a junior college student
posted a public post on this subreddit
 
 
posted a public post on this subreddit
 
 
posted a public post on this subreddit
called
 
 
called
 
 
called
sg exams and she basically talked about
 
 
sg exams and she basically talked about
 
 
sg exams and she basically talked about
how
 
 
how
 
 
how
even though her friends were supportive
 
 
even though her friends were supportive
 
 
even though her friends were supportive
her parents gave her consent
 
 
her parents gave her consent
 
 
her parents gave her consent
the doctors were going to give her like
 
 
the doctors were going to give her like
 
 
the doctors were going to give her like
the the green light for like a hormonal
 
 
the the green light for like a hormonal
 
 
the the green light for like a hormonal
treatment the menstrual education
 
 
treatment the menstrual education
 
 
treatment the menstrual education
the school administrators who were part
 
 
the school administrators who were part
 
 
the school administrators who were part
of the ministry of education in the
 
 
of the ministry of education in the
 
 
of the ministry of education in the
school
 
 
school
 
 
school
went to veto that decision the actual
 
 
went to veto that decision the actual
 
 
went to veto that decision the actual
interference
 
 
interference
 
 
interference
by moe in the in hd's case is
 
 
by moe in the in hd's case is
 
 
by moe in the in hd's case is
still a legend why did the experiences
 
 
still a legend why did the experiences
 
 
still a legend why did the experiences
that actually share
 
 
that actually share
 
 
that actually share
uh resonate so much because i have
 
 
uh resonate so much because i have
 
 
uh resonate so much because i have
experienced that myself although this
 
 
experienced that myself although this
 
 
experienced that myself although this
was a legend
 
 
was a legend
 
 
was a legend
an alleged sort of uh public statement
 
 
an alleged sort of uh public statement
 
 
an alleged sort of uh public statement
right many of us in the transgender and
 
 
right many of us in the transgender and
 
 
right many of us in the transgender and
non-binary and the general lgbtq
 
 
non-binary and the general lgbtq
 
 
non-binary and the general lgbtq
community
 
 
community
 
 
community
actually resonated with these
 
 
actually resonated with these
 
 
actually resonated with these
experiences
 
 
experiences
 
 
experiences
this reminded me of like my experiences
 
 
this reminded me of like my experiences
 
 
this reminded me of like my experiences
in school
 
 
in school
 
 
in school
i mean i came out and trusted well when
 
 
i mean i came out and trusted well when
 
 
i mean i came out and trusted well when
i was like 17
 
 
i was like 17
 
 
i was like 17
years old as a young chance mumu just
 
 
years old as a young chance mumu just
 
 
years old as a young chance mumu just
came out
 
 
came out
 
 
came out
i want to pass but you know i was not
 
 
i want to pass but you know i was not
 
 
i want to pass but you know i was not
allowed to do that
 
 
allowed to do that
 
 
allowed to do that
it hurts because we are expected to
 
 
it hurts because we are expected to
 
 
it hurts because we are expected to
present ourselves in a way that we are
 
 
present ourselves in a way that we are
 
 
present ourselves in a way that we are
not comfortable with
 
 
not comfortable with
 
 
not comfortable with
that does not express ourselves fully of
 
 
that does not express ourselves fully of
 
 
that does not express ourselves fully of
all the ways to appeal to the ministry
 
 
all the ways to appeal to the ministry
 
 
all the ways to appeal to the ministry
why do you feel that you had to use the
 
 
why do you feel that you had to use the
 
 
why do you feel that you had to use the
protest during
 
 
protest during
 
 
protest during
whatever was happening right there was a
 
 
whatever was happening right there was a
 
 
whatever was happening right there was a
lot of stuff that was being done on the
 
 
lot of stuff that was being done on the
 
 
lot of stuff that was being done on the
ground that were what we call like
 
 
ground that were what we call like
 
 
ground that were what we call like
legitimate forms of
 
 
legitimate forms of
 
 
legitimate forms of
uh consultation or resistance many
 
 
uh consultation or resistance many
 
 
uh consultation or resistance many
people from the transgender community
 
 
people from the transgender community
 
 
people from the transgender community
from the queer community they were
 
 
from the queer community they were
 
 
from the queer community they were
already putting out statements of
 
 
already putting out statements of
 
 
already putting out statements of
support it did not seem at that time
 
 
support it did not seem at that time
 
 
support it did not seem at that time
point in time like in those in that week
 
 
point in time like in those in that week
 
 
point in time like in those in that week
itself
 
 
itself
 
 
itself
that the ministry was responding an
 
 
that the ministry was responding an
 
 
that the ministry was responding an
adequate manner
 
 
adequate manner
 
 
adequate manner
it reached to a point of desperation
 
 
 
 
you know in the aftermath of the protest
 
 
you know in the aftermath of the protest
 
 
you know in the aftermath of the protest
the question of trump's students
 
 
the question of trump's students
 
 
the question of trump's students
was brought up in parliament actually
 
 
was brought up in parliament actually
 
 
was brought up in parliament actually
and what the minister of education said
 
 
and what the minister of education said
 
 
and what the minister of education said
he framed it in terms of a culture war
 
 
he framed it in terms of a culture war
 
 
he framed it in terms of a culture war
and the non-minister also took it and
 
 
and the non-minister also took it and
 
 
and the non-minister also took it and
she did the same thing as
 
 
she did the same thing as
 
 
she did the same thing as
what the moe public statements did which
 
 
what the moe public statements did which
 
 
what the moe public statements did which
was to shift the blame onto something
 
 
was to shift the blame onto something
 
 
was to shift the blame onto something
that wasn't even relevant
 
 
that wasn't even relevant
 
 
that wasn't even relevant
and so there's just this sense of
 
 
and so there's just this sense of
 
 
and so there's just this sense of
disappointment and this existential
 
 
disappointment and this existential
 
 
disappointment and this existential
crisis on my part like
 
 
crisis on my part like
 
 
crisis on my part like
what can i what can we do next as a
 
 
what can i what can we do next as a
 
 
what can i what can we do next as a
community
 
 
 
 
the lack of legal recognition for the
 
 
the lack of legal recognition for the
 
 
the lack of legal recognition for the
trans community is something i
 
 
trans community is something i
 
 
trans community is something i
personally faced as well
 
 
personally faced as well
 
 
personally faced as well
when i came out publicly in 2014
 
 
when i came out publicly in 2014
 
 
when i came out publicly in 2014
june came out the same time as i did we
 
 
june came out the same time as i did we
 
 
june came out the same time as i did we
were one of the first few visible trans
 
 
were one of the first few visible trans
 
 
were one of the first few visible trans
advocates for the community of that time
 
 
advocates for the community of that time
 
 
advocates for the community of that time
 
 
 
 
june medically transitioned in the early
 
 
june medically transitioned in the early
 
 
june medically transitioned in the early
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when being a transgender person was
 
 
when being a transgender person was
 
 
when being a transgender person was
considered taboo in society
 
 
considered taboo in society
 
 
considered taboo in society
today she hit singapore's first
 
 
today she hit singapore's first
 
 
today she hit singapore's first
translate shelter
 
 
translate shelter
 
 
translate shelter
to address the issue of homelessness for
 
 
to address the issue of homelessness for
 
 
to address the issue of homelessness for
trans individuals in singapore
 
 
 
 
so this is a slightly bigger spacer so
 
 
so this is a slightly bigger spacer so
 
 
so this is a slightly bigger spacer so
my
 
 
my
 
 
my
my local and regional awards are here
 
 
my local and regional awards are here
 
 
my local and regional awards are here
but this is not the final place
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
her advocacy work has also expanded to
 
 
her advocacy work has also expanded to
 
 
her advocacy work has also expanded to
providing transgender youths
 
 
providing transgender youths
 
 
providing transgender youths
access to social support and trans
 
 
access to social support and trans
 
 
access to social support and trans
focused resources workspace conference
 
 
focused resources workspace conference
 
 
focused resources workspace conference
workshop space
 
 
workshop space
 
 
workshop space
together with transgender befrienders
 
 
together with transgender befrienders
 
 
together with transgender befrienders
starting a tutoring program for
 
 
starting a tutoring program for
 
 
starting a tutoring program for
students who leave school for various
 
 
students who leave school for various
 
 
students who leave school for various
reason
 
 
 
 
i want to know yes how old were you when
 
 
i want to know yes how old were you when
 
 
i want to know yes how old were you when
you
 
 
you
 
 
you
started to transition 10 years to become
 
 
started to transition 10 years to become
 
 
started to transition 10 years to become
aware i'm transgender
 
 
aware i'm transgender
 
 
aware i'm transgender
i knew i'm different yet same same after
 
 
i knew i'm different yet same same after
 
 
i knew i'm different yet same same after
all levels left school
 
 
all levels left school
 
 
all levels left school
start transitioning start taking hrt and
 
 
start transitioning start taking hrt and
 
 
start transitioning start taking hrt and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at that time it's called sex change now
 
 
at that time it's called sex change now
 
 
at that time it's called sex change now
now uh gender confirmation surgery
 
 
now uh gender confirmation surgery
 
 
now uh gender confirmation surgery
are you very affected by school bully i
 
 
are you very affected by school bully i
 
 
are you very affected by school bully i
don't see them as bullying boys
 
 
don't see them as bullying boys
 
 
don't see them as bullying boys
i see that at teasing see that it's
 
 
i see that at teasing see that it's
 
 
i see that at teasing see that it's
giving me attention there i love it
 
 
giving me attention there i love it
 
 
giving me attention there i love it
you were like a good enough student to
 
 
you were like a good enough student to
 
 
you were like a good enough student to
continue your education of the secondary
 
 
continue your education of the secondary
 
 
continue your education of the secondary
school
 
 
school
 
 
school
can you tell me what happened so i
 
 
can you tell me what happened so i
 
 
can you tell me what happened so i
always say hello
 
 
always say hello
 
 
always say hello
i was wrong up my education because i
 
 
i was wrong up my education because i
 
 
i was wrong up my education because i
because the school school system that
 
 
because the school school system that
 
 
because the school school system that
time cannot confirm
 
 
time cannot confirm
 
 
time cannot confirm
let's put it i cannot conform to the
 
 
let's put it i cannot conform to the
 
 
let's put it i cannot conform to the
school system the binary uniform
 
 
school system the binary uniform
 
 
school system the binary uniform
i do find a way to make my my school my
 
 
i do find a way to make my my school my
 
 
i do find a way to make my my school my
school uniform more woman so i do like
 
 
school uniform more woman so i do like
 
 
school uniform more woman so i do like
last last time very short hot pants
 
 
last last time very short hot pants
 
 
last last time very short hot pants
so the school pant everybody long long
 
 
so the school pant everybody long long
 
 
so the school pant everybody long long
one right now when you're like super
 
 
one right now when you're like super
 
 
one right now when you're like super
super short one huh
 
 
super short one huh
 
 
super short one huh
wow then fold up some more then of
 
 
wow then fold up some more then of
 
 
wow then fold up some more then of
course the leg hair shaved one
 
 
course the leg hair shaved one
 
 
course the leg hair shaved one
many of june's peers who came out around
 
 
many of june's peers who came out around
 
 
many of june's peers who came out around
the same time the lack of education
 
 
the same time the lack of education
 
 
the same time the lack of education
also meant limited employment
 
 
also meant limited employment
 
 
also meant limited employment
opportunities
 
 
 
 
i'm lucky i have a very loving family at
 
 
i'm lucky i have a very loving family at
 
 
i'm lucky i have a very loving family at
that time right if you come out as trans
 
 
that time right if you come out as trans
 
 
that time right if you come out as trans
right you will kick off school
 
 
right you will kick off school
 
 
right you will kick off school
invaded out of your house most of the
 
 
invaded out of your house most of the
 
 
invaded out of your house most of the
drop naturally drop out of school
 
 
drop naturally drop out of school
 
 
drop naturally drop out of school
because we need to find a job to pay our
 
 
because we need to find a job to pay our
 
 
because we need to find a job to pay our
rent to pay for food everything
 
 
rent to pay for food everything
 
 
rent to pay for food everything
zero family support because at that time
 
 
zero family support because at that time
 
 
zero family support because at that time
being trans means you had to be
 
 
being trans means you had to be
 
 
being trans means you had to be
sex worker the biggest thing i see now
 
 
sex worker the biggest thing i see now
 
 
sex worker the biggest thing i see now
is
 
 
is
 
 
is
parents that are filming but now how i
 
 
parents that are filming but now how i
 
 
parents that are filming but now how i
see more and more
 
 
see more and more
 
 
see more and more
i see more more transgender students
 
 
i see more more transgender students
 
 
i see more more transgender students
stay in school even till universities
 
 
stay in school even till universities
 
 
stay in school even till universities
are higher education and my parents are
 
 
are higher education and my parents are
 
 
are higher education and my parents are
paying their school fees
 
 
paying their school fees
 
 
paying their school fees
everybody deserved their education
 
 
everybody deserved their education
 
 
everybody deserved their education
according to
 
 
according to
 
 
according to
the person's abilities not according to
 
 
the person's abilities not according to
 
 
the person's abilities not according to
the person's
 
 
the person's
 
 
the person's
gender identity or sexual orientation
 
 
gender identity or sexual orientation
 
 
gender identity or sexual orientation
or race or religion
 
 
 
 
so looking back on the conversations
 
 
so looking back on the conversations
 
 
so looking back on the conversations
that i had with loon jun and kaiden
 
 
that i had with loon jun and kaiden
 
 
that i had with loon jun and kaiden
i realized that education is really
 
 
i realized that education is really
 
 
i realized that education is really
important to trans people
 
 
important to trans people
 
 
important to trans people
they want to have an education but they
 
 
they want to have an education but they
 
 
they want to have an education but they
want to make sure that when they
 
 
want to make sure that when they
 
 
want to make sure that when they
are in these educational spaces they
 
 
are in these educational spaces they
 
 
are in these educational spaces they
feel safe respected
 
 
feel safe respected
 
 
feel safe respected
for their trans identities so i think a
 
 
for their trans identities so i think a
 
 
for their trans identities so i think a
big part of why policy hasn't been
 
 
big part of why policy hasn't been
 
 
big part of why policy hasn't been
implemented to acknowledge that there
 
 
implemented to acknowledge that there
 
 
implemented to acknowledge that there
are trans students in schools
 
 
are trans students in schools
 
 
are trans students in schools
is that for a long time the schools
 
 
is that for a long time the schools
 
 
is that for a long time the schools
decided to believe that transgender
 
 
decided to believe that transgender
 
 
decided to believe that transgender
people didn't exist
 
 
people didn't exist
 
 
people didn't exist
and that's obviously completely wrong
 
 
and that's obviously completely wrong
 
 
and that's obviously completely wrong
because i would say everybody who we
 
 
because i would say everybody who we
 
 
because i would say everybody who we
spoke to on this episode
 
 
spoke to on this episode
 
 
spoke to on this episode
grew up in the singaporean school system
 
 
grew up in the singaporean school system
 
 
grew up in the singaporean school system
they've always existed we have always
 
 
they've always existed we have always
 
 
they've always existed we have always
existed
 
 
existed
 
 
existed
become a truly inclusive society we need
 
 
become a truly inclusive society we need
 
 
become a truly inclusive society we need
to make sure that everybody gets the
 
 
to make sure that everybody gets the
 
 
to make sure that everybody gets the
education that they deserve
 
 
education that they deserve
 
 
education that they deserve
and nobody should be denied an education
 
 
and nobody should be denied an education
 
 
and nobody should be denied an education
just because they are different
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
you

 
so a lot of people gender might seem

 
so a lot of people gender might seem

 
so a lot of people gender might seem
very simple you're either born with XX

 
very simple you're either born with XX

 
very simple you're either born with XX
chromosomes and therefore you're a girl

 
chromosomes and therefore you're a girl

 
chromosomes and therefore you're a girl
or you're born with XY and you're a boy

 
or you're born with XY and you're a boy

 
or you're born with XY and you're a boy
but it's not quite that simple even just
 
 
but it's not quite that simple even just
 
 
but it's not quite that simple even just
from a biological perspective there are
 
 
from a biological perspective there are
 
 
from a biological perspective there are
a variety of reasons why you could have
 
 
a variety of reasons why you could have
 
 
a variety of reasons why you could have
XX chromosomes and actually mainly be a
 
 
XX chromosomes and actually mainly be a
 
 
XX chromosomes and actually mainly be a
male when it comes to your psychology
 
 
male when it comes to your psychology
 
 
male when it comes to your psychology
physiology and even Anatomy and the
 
 
physiology and even Anatomy and the
 
 
physiology and even Anatomy and the
reverse is also true so if you can be XY
 
 
reverse is also true so if you can be XY
 
 
reverse is also true so if you can be XY
and predominantly female what does that
 
 
and predominantly female what does that
 
 
and predominantly female what does that
mean
 
 
mean
 
 
mean
I guess gender just isn't as simple as
 
 
I guess gender just isn't as simple as
 
 
I guess gender just isn't as simple as
you thought the chromosomes and
 
 
you thought the chromosomes and
 
 
you thought the chromosomes and
genitalia you're born with make up your
 
 
genitalia you're born with make up your
 
 
genitalia you're born with make up your
biological sex but sex and gender aren't
 
 
biological sex but sex and gender aren't
 
 
biological sex but sex and gender aren't
the same thing genders made up of two
 
 
the same thing genders made up of two
 
 
the same thing genders made up of two
other areas your gender identity and
 
 
other areas your gender identity and
 
 
other areas your gender identity and
your gender expression your biological
 
 
your gender expression your biological
 
 
your gender expression your biological
sex is based on a number of physical
 
 
sex is based on a number of physical
 
 
sex is based on a number of physical
factors including chromosomes hormones
 
 
factors including chromosomes hormones
 
 
factors including chromosomes hormones
and genitals most people fall at one end
 
 
and genitals most people fall at one end
 
 
and genitals most people fall at one end
of the spectrum or the other most people
 
 
of the spectrum or the other most people
 
 
of the spectrum or the other most people
are either entirely male or entirely
 
 
are either entirely male or entirely
 
 
are either entirely male or entirely
female but for a variety of reasons
 
 
female but for a variety of reasons
 
 
female but for a variety of reasons
about one in a hundred people are
 
 
about one in a hundred people are
 
 
about one in a hundred people are
somewhere between male and female people
 
 
somewhere between male and female people
 
 
somewhere between male and female people
can be biologically somewhere between
 
 
can be biologically somewhere between
 
 
can be biologically somewhere between
because of the sry gene every embryo has
 
 
because of the sry gene every embryo has
 
 
because of the sry gene every embryo has
a pair of proto gonads which are neither
 
 
a pair of proto gonads which are neither
 
 
a pair of proto gonads which are neither
male nor female the sry gene is part of
 
 
male nor female the sry gene is part of
 
 
male nor female the sry gene is part of
the male Y chromosome so the sry gene
 
 
the male Y chromosome so the sry gene
 
 
the male Y chromosome so the sry gene
turns proto gonads into testes which
 
 
turns proto gonads into testes which
 
 
turns proto gonads into testes which
then produce testosterone and create the
 
 
then produce testosterone and create the
 
 
then produce testosterone and create the
rest of the male genitalia if the male Y
 
 
rest of the male genitalia if the male Y
 
 
rest of the male genitalia if the male Y
chromosome isn't present then neither is
 
 
chromosome isn't present then neither is
 
 
chromosome isn't present then neither is
the sry gene if the sry gene isn't
 
 
the sry gene if the sry gene isn't
 
 
the sry gene if the sry gene isn't
present and the proto gonads develop
 
 
present and the proto gonads develop
 
 
present and the proto gonads develop
naturally uninterrupted if the proto
 
 
naturally uninterrupted if the proto
 
 
naturally uninterrupted if the proto
Gonet it's a given time they naturally
 
 
Gonet it's a given time they naturally
 
 
Gonet it's a given time they naturally
develop into ovaries and then the rest
 
 
develop into ovaries and then the rest
 
 
develop into ovaries and then the rest
of the female genitalia develops that's
 
 
of the female genitalia develops that's
 
 
of the female genitalia develops that's
how the sry gene works in theory at
 
 
how the sry gene works in theory at
 
 
how the sry gene works in theory at
least sometimes the sry gene can be
 
 
least sometimes the sry gene can be
 
 
least sometimes the sry gene can be
missing or dysfunctional an embryo with
 
 
missing or dysfunctional an embryo with
 
 
missing or dysfunctional an embryo with
an XY chromosome should always have a
 
 
an XY chromosome should always have a
 
 
an XY chromosome should always have a
functioning sry gene however when it's
 
 
functioning sry gene however when it's
 
 
functioning sry gene however when it's
missing or dysfunctional the male
 
 
missing or dysfunctional the male
 
 
missing or dysfunctional the male
genitals aren't formed this would mean
 
 
genitals aren't formed this would mean
 
 
genitals aren't formed this would mean
that time would pass and ovaries would
 
 
that time would pass and ovaries would
 
 
that time would pass and ovaries would
be produced instead the baby would be
 
 
be produced instead the baby would be
 
 
be produced instead the baby would be
born with female genitalia despite
 
 
born with female genitalia despite
 
 
born with female genitalia despite
having male XY chromosomes the reverse
 
 
having male XY chromosomes the reverse
 
 
having male XY chromosomes the reverse
can also happen where an embryo with XX
 
 
can also happen where an embryo with XX
 
 
can also happen where an embryo with XX
chromosomes can also have the sry gene
 
 
chromosomes can also have the sry gene
 
 
chromosomes can also have the sry gene
this results on a baby with XX
 
 
this results on a baby with XX
 
 
this results on a baby with XX
chromosomes being born with male
 
 
chromosomes being born with male
 
 
chromosomes being born with male
genitalia there's also a huge number
 
 
genitalia there's also a huge number
 
 
genitalia there's also a huge number
other ways that people can be born with
 
 
other ways that people can be born with
 
 
other ways that people can be born with
a less clear biological sex unrelated
 
 
a less clear biological sex unrelated
 
 
a less clear biological sex unrelated
with the sry gene so as you can see
 
 
with the sry gene so as you can see
 
 
with the sry gene so as you can see
biological sex
 
 
biological sex
 
 
biological sex
clearly-defined it's a spectrum and it's
 
 
clearly-defined it's a spectrum and it's
 
 
clearly-defined it's a spectrum and it's
not always clear at birth if a child is
 
 
not always clear at birth if a child is
 
 
not always clear at birth if a child is
male or female because your chromosomes
 
 
male or female because your chromosomes
 
 
male or female because your chromosomes
might not match your genitals the next
 
 
might not match your genitals the next
 
 
might not match your genitals the next
part of gender will discuss is gender
 
 
part of gender will discuss is gender
 
 
part of gender will discuss is gender
identity your gender identity is the
 
 
identity your gender identity is the
 
 
identity your gender identity is the
gender you identify yourself as Norway
 
 
gender you identify yourself as Norway
 
 
gender you identify yourself as Norway
around the age of three a child develops
 
 
around the age of three a child develops
 
 
around the age of three a child develops
a firmly held feeling of being
 
 
a firmly held feeling of being
 
 
a firmly held feeling of being
male/female somewhere in between fluid
 
 
male/female somewhere in between fluid
 
 
male/female somewhere in between fluid
or neither gender your gender identity
 
 
or neither gender your gender identity
 
 
or neither gender your gender identity
is purely based on if you identify
 
 
is purely based on if you identify
 
 
is purely based on if you identify
yourself as male female or another
 
 
yourself as male female or another
 
 
yourself as male female or another
gender this is where transgender people
 
 
gender this is where transgender people
 
 
gender this is where transgender people
come in transgender people are
 
 
come in transgender people are
 
 
come in transgender people are
individuals who don't identify with the
 
 
individuals who don't identify with the
 
 
individuals who don't identify with the
sex they were born as for example people
 
 
sex they were born as for example people
 
 
sex they were born as for example people
who were born with a male biological sex
 
 
who were born with a male biological sex
 
 
who were born with a male biological sex
but who identify as female or vice versa
 
 
but who identify as female or vice versa
 
 
but who identify as female or vice versa
cisgender people are those who identify
 
 
cisgender people are those who identify
 
 
cisgender people are those who identify
with the sex they were born as the silh
 
 
with the sex they were born as the silh
 
 
with the sex they were born as the silh
a lot of research being done into the
 
 
a lot of research being done into the
 
 
a lot of research being done into the
biology of being transgender as we don't
 
 
biology of being transgender as we don't
 
 
biology of being transgender as we don't
know everything quite yet one theory is
 
 
know everything quite yet one theory is
 
 
know everything quite yet one theory is
based on the fact that sexual
 
 
based on the fact that sexual
 
 
based on the fact that sexual
differentiation at the genitals and
 
 
differentiation at the genitals and
 
 
differentiation at the genitals and
brain happen at different points during
 
 
brain happen at different points during
 
 
brain happen at different points during
pregnancy six to eight weeks into
 
 
pregnancy six to eight weeks into
 
 
pregnancy six to eight weeks into
pregnancy the genderless proto gonads
 
 
pregnancy the genderless proto gonads
 
 
pregnancy the genderless proto gonads
start to become male or female genitals
 
 
start to become male or female genitals
 
 
start to become male or female genitals
whereas gender-based difference in the
 
 
whereas gender-based difference in the
 
 
whereas gender-based difference in the
brain happens in the second half of
 
 
brain happens in the second half of
 
 
brain happens in the second half of
pregnancy a wide variety of
 
 
pregnancy a wide variety of
 
 
pregnancy a wide variety of
environmental factors such as hormones
 
 
environmental factors such as hormones
 
 
environmental factors such as hormones
chemicals and nutrients determine if the
 
 
chemicals and nutrients determine if the
 
 
chemicals and nutrients determine if the
brain and genitals become male or female
 
 
brain and genitals become male or female
 
 
brain and genitals become male or female
this means that the environment around
 
 
this means that the environment around
 
 
this means that the environment around
an embryo could change between the
 
 
an embryo could change between the
 
 
an embryo could change between the
genitals being developed and the brain
 
 
genitals being developed and the brain
 
 
genitals being developed and the brain
which could cause a disconnects between
 
 
which could cause a disconnects between
 
 
which could cause a disconnects between
the two there aren't specific male and
 
 
the two there aren't specific male and
 
 
the two there aren't specific male and
female brains but there are differences
 
 
female brains but there are differences
 
 
female brains but there are differences
between the brains of men and women
 
 
between the brains of men and women
 
 
between the brains of men and women
research into transgender people shows
 
 
research into transgender people shows
 
 
research into transgender people shows
that trans people's brains tend to be
 
 
that trans people's brains tend to be
 
 
that trans people's brains tend to be
more similar to gender they identify as
 
 
more similar to gender they identify as
 
 
more similar to gender they identify as
than their biological sex at birth this
 
 
than their biological sex at birth this
 
 
than their biological sex at birth this
research Sonja it's early stages but it
 
 
research Sonja it's early stages but it
 
 
research Sonja it's early stages but it
helps us to begin to understand what
 
 
helps us to begin to understand what
 
 
helps us to begin to understand what
could cause people to be transgender
 
 
could cause people to be transgender
 
 
could cause people to be transgender
your gender expression is a third
 
 
your gender expression is a third
 
 
your gender expression is a third
completely separate part your gender
 
 
completely separate part your gender
 
 
completely separate part your gender
expression is based on how you convey
 
 
expression is based on how you convey
 
 
expression is based on how you convey
your gender to other people this could
 
 
your gender to other people this could
 
 
your gender to other people this could
be through behavior clothing or any
 
 
be through behavior clothing or any
 
 
be through behavior clothing or any
other external signs of gender this is
 
 
other external signs of gender this is
 
 
other external signs of gender this is
also expect hram on one end is masculine
 
 
also expect hram on one end is masculine
 
 
also expect hram on one end is masculine
where you express your gender in a way
 
 
where you express your gender in a way
 
 
where you express your gender in a way
which very closely aligns with things
 
 
which very closely aligns with things
 
 
which very closely aligns with things
your culture thinks of as male well on
 
 
your culture thinks of as male well on
 
 
your culture thinks of as male well on
the other end is feminine
 
 
the other end is feminine
 
 
the other end is feminine
so expressing your gender in a way
 
 
so expressing your gender in a way
 
 
so expressing your gender in a way
associated with females there's a whole
 
 
associated with females there's a whole
 
 
associated with females there's a whole
variety of gender expressions between
 
 
variety of gender expressions between
 
 
variety of gender expressions between
these two extremes it's important to
 
 
these two extremes it's important to
 
 
these two extremes it's important to
remember that having a
 
 
remember that having a
 
 
remember that having a
your expression which doesn't 100% match
 
 
your expression which doesn't 100% match
 
 
your expression which doesn't 100% match
your biological sex doesn't make you
 
 
your biological sex doesn't make you
 
 
your biological sex doesn't make you
transgender few people completely comply
 
 
transgender few people completely comply
 
 
transgender few people completely comply
with all other cultural stereotypes
 
 
with all other cultural stereotypes
 
 
with all other cultural stereotypes
which define what it means to be male or
 
 
which define what it means to be male or
 
 
which define what it means to be male or
female when it comes to me personally my
 
 
female when it comes to me personally my
 
 
female when it comes to me personally my
biological sex is male my gender
 
 
biological sex is male my gender
 
 
biological sex is male my gender
identity is male however I wouldn't put
 
 
identity is male however I wouldn't put
 
 
identity is male however I wouldn't put
my gender expression as a hundred
 
 
my gender expression as a hundred
 
 
my gender expression as a hundred
percent male my traits are generally
 
 
percent male my traits are generally
 
 
percent male my traits are generally
male but I don't completely match
 
 
male but I don't completely match
 
 
male but I don't completely match
society stereotypes of what it means to
 
 
society stereotypes of what it means to
 
 
society stereotypes of what it means to
be male your gender expression is a very
 
 
be male your gender expression is a very
 
 
be male your gender expression is a very
subjective thing and there's a lot of
 
 
subjective thing and there's a lot of
 
 
subjective thing and there's a lot of
space between the two extremes somewhere
 
 
space between the two extremes somewhere
 
 
space between the two extremes somewhere
between the two sides is identifying as
 
 
between the two sides is identifying as
 
 
between the two sides is identifying as
androgynous this means being a
 
 
androgynous this means being a
 
 
androgynous this means being a
combination of masculine and feminine or
 
 
combination of masculine and feminine or
 
 
combination of masculine and feminine or
another form of gender expression as we
 
 
another form of gender expression as we
 
 
another form of gender expression as we
go forward there's gonna be more and
 
 
go forward there's gonna be more and
 
 
go forward there's gonna be more and
more conversations about what it means
 
 
more conversations about what it means
 
 
more conversations about what it means
to be male female or somewhere in
 
 
to be male female or somewhere in
 
 
to be male female or somewhere in
between hopefully now you feel a little
 
 
between hopefully now you feel a little
 
 
between hopefully now you feel a little
more informed to get involved in these
 
 
more informed to get involved in these
 
 
more informed to get involved in these
debates

 
all right doing Pride Month lgbtqa+

 
all right doing Pride Month lgbtqa+

 
all right doing Pride Month lgbtqa+
communities look to uplift their voices

 
communities look to uplift their voices

 
communities look to uplift their voices
against the stigma is still restricting

 
against the stigma is still restricting

 
against the stigma is still restricting
people from living freely and without

 
people from living freely and without

 
people from living freely and without
fear
 
 
fear
 
 
fear
tonight our Kimberly Craig shares the
 
 
tonight our Kimberly Craig shares the
 
 
tonight our Kimberly Craig shares the
story of a world-class power lifter who
 
 
story of a world-class power lifter who
 
 
story of a world-class power lifter who
stunned the sports world when she made
 
 
stunned the sports world when she made
 
 
stunned the sports world when she made
the decision to share her transition
 
 
the decision to share her transition
 
 
the decision to share her transition
publicly June a crock grew up in a small
 
 
publicly June a crock grew up in a small
 
 
publicly June a crock grew up in a small
town in northern Michigan struggling to
 
 
town in northern Michigan struggling to
 
 
town in northern Michigan struggling to
find herself now she hopes her journey
 
 
find herself now she hopes her journey
 
 
find herself now she hopes her journey
will help others find their own way to
 
 
will help others find their own way to
 
 
will help others find their own way to
peace and acceptance I'm a world
 
 
peace and acceptance I'm a world
 
 
peace and acceptance I'm a world
powerlifting champion in 2009 I set the
 
 
powerlifting champion in 2009 I set the
 
 
powerlifting champion in 2009 I set the
all-time world record in the 220 pound
 
 
all-time world record in the 220 pound
 
 
all-time world record in the 220 pound
class with a thousand three squat 7:38
 
 
class with a thousand three squat 7:38
 
 
class with a thousand three squat 7:38
bench 810 deadlift and the 25:51 total
 
 
bench 810 deadlift and the 25:51 total
 
 
bench 810 deadlift and the 25:51 total
year's fans and those in the world of
 
 
year's fans and those in the world of
 
 
year's fans and those in the world of
powerlifting in bodybuilding saw Matt
 
 
powerlifting in bodybuilding saw Matt
 
 
powerlifting in bodybuilding saw Matt
Kruk as an ultra masculine picture of
 
 
Kruk as an ultra masculine picture of
 
 
Kruk as an ultra masculine picture of
perfection and the reputation I had was
 
 
perfection and the reputation I had was
 
 
perfection and the reputation I had was
being like the most intense the craziest
 
 
being like the most intense the craziest
 
 
being like the most intense the craziest
so I was like the Alpha the alphas and
 
 
so I was like the Alpha the alphas and
 
 
so I was like the Alpha the alphas and
so I was like the last person in the
 
 
so I was like the last person in the
 
 
so I was like the last person in the
world that anyone suspected and that's
 
 
world that anyone suspected and that's
 
 
world that anyone suspected and that's
what made it I think even more shocking
 
 
what made it I think even more shocking
 
 
what made it I think even more shocking
and made it more difficult for me to
 
 
and made it more difficult for me to
 
 
and made it more difficult for me to
come out because this Marines toughest
 
 
come out because this Marines toughest
 
 
come out because this Marines toughest
battle had been waging inside from a
 
 
battle had been waging inside from a
 
 
battle had been waging inside from a
very young age and being a very young
 
 
very young age and being a very young
 
 
very young age and being a very young
child and and there were just too strong
 
 
child and and there were just too strong
 
 
child and and there were just too strong
desires from a young age I was always
 
 
desires from a young age I was always
 
 
desires from a young age I was always
interested in strength sports any time I
 
 
interested in strength sports any time I
 
 
interested in strength sports any time I
would see somebody big and muscular I
 
 
would see somebody big and muscular I
 
 
would see somebody big and muscular I
was like wow and then I just always like
 
 
was like wow and then I just always like
 
 
was like wow and then I just always like
I just started like by the time I was 5
 
 
I just started like by the time I was 5
 
 
I just started like by the time I was 5
or 6 years old I was always daydreaming
 
 
or 6 years old I was always daydreaming
 
 
or 6 years old I was always daydreaming
about being female and in 2015 when Jana
 
 
about being female and in 2015 when Jana
 
 
about being female and in 2015 when Jana
Marie Kroc came out as a transgender
 
 
Marie Kroc came out as a transgender
 
 
Marie Kroc came out as a transgender
woman it was something her three sons
 
 
woman it was something her three sons
 
 
woman it was something her three sons
had already known I had told my boys
 
 
had already known I had told my boys
 
 
had already known I had told my boys
when they were very young I told him
 
 
when they were very young I told him
 
 
when they were very young I told him
when they were two four and six as
 
 
when they were two four and six as
 
 
when they were two four and six as
honesty and openness was always very
 
 
honesty and openness was always very
 
 
honesty and openness was always very
important to me I was just always very
 
 
important to me I was just always very
 
 
important to me I was just always very
open about it I didn't you know it was
 
 
open about it I didn't you know it was
 
 
open about it I didn't you know it was
nothing that it was just a part of our
 
 
nothing that it was just a part of our
 
 
nothing that it was just a part of our
lives it was nothing that I made a big
 
 
lives it was nothing that I made a big
 
 
lives it was nothing that I made a big
deal out of or emphasized and we would
 
 
deal out of or emphasized and we would
 
 
deal out of or emphasized and we would
if they had questions I answered them
 
 
if they had questions I answered them
 
 
if they had questions I answered them
openly and honestly and but for the most
 
 
openly and honestly and but for the most
 
 
openly and honestly and but for the most
part it was just you know that was just
 
 
part it was just you know that was just
 
 
part it was just you know that was just
part of me but it did shock the world of
 
 
part of me but it did shock the world of
 
 
part of me but it did shock the world of
strength sports there was a lot more
 
 
strength sports there was a lot more
 
 
strength sports there was a lot more
people that supported me than I expected
 
 
people that supported me than I expected
 
 
people that supported me than I expected
especially some of the big-name lifters
 
 
especially some of the big-name lifters
 
 
especially some of the big-name lifters
and people that were very well-respected
 
 
and people that were very well-respected
 
 
and people that were very well-respected
in the sport and that that was really
 
 
in the sport and that that was really
 
 
in the sport and that that was really
nice to see but you know the fan base
 
 
nice to see but you know the fan base
 
 
nice to see but you know the fan base
there were there were a lot of people
 
 
there were there were a lot of people
 
 
there were there were a lot of people
that were very upset about it and I had
 
 
that were very upset about it and I had
 
 
that were very upset about it and I had
people messaging me to tell me they'd
 
 
people messaging me to tell me they'd
 
 
people messaging me to tell me they'd
burn the posters I'd sign for them
 
 
burn the posters I'd sign for them
 
 
burn the posters I'd sign for them
and they're crazy I mean some of them
 
 
and they're crazy I mean some of them
 
 
and they're crazy I mean some of them
were legit crazy like I was like wow
 
 
were legit crazy like I was like wow
 
 
were legit crazy like I was like wow
that's some that's some impressive
 
 
that's some that's some impressive
 
 
that's some that's some impressive
rejection janae crock is now an activist
 
 
rejection janae crock is now an activist
 
 
rejection janae crock is now an activist
for the lgbtq+ communities and using her
 
 
for the lgbtq+ communities and using her
 
 
for the lgbtq+ communities and using her
greatest strengths to champion for
 
 
greatest strengths to champion for
 
 
greatest strengths to champion for
change compassion and equality
 
 
change compassion and equality
 
 
change compassion and equality
I grew up hating who I was you know for
 
 
I grew up hating who I was you know for
 
 
I grew up hating who I was you know for
the longest time and I always felt like
 
 
the longest time and I always felt like
 
 
the longest time and I always felt like
there was something wrong with me like I
 
 
there was something wrong with me like I
 
 
there was something wrong with me like I
was broken and you know I was really
 
 
was broken and you know I was really
 
 
was broken and you know I was really
worried that no one would ever love me
 
 
worried that no one would ever love me
 
 
worried that no one would ever love me
and I never want other people to have to
 
 
and I never want other people to have to
 
 
and I never want other people to have to
feel that way
 
 
feel that way
 
 
feel that way
it's amazing to you know hear like the
 
 
it's amazing to you know hear like the
 
 
it's amazing to you know hear like the
impact and and hate too much also
 
 
impact and and hate too much also
 
 
impact and and hate too much also
getting choked up but about you know
 
 
getting choked up but about you know
 
 
getting choked up but about you know
people that you know I thought about
 
 
people that you know I thought about
 
 
people that you know I thought about
suicide and things like that and and
 
 
suicide and things like that and and
 
 
suicide and things like that and and
our hearing from parents and you know
 
 
our hearing from parents and you know
 
 
our hearing from parents and you know
that my story helped them accept their
 
 
that my story helped them accept their
 
 
that my story helped them accept their
children and you know things like that
 
 
children and you know things like that
 
 
children and you know things like that
so it's when you uh when you hear those
 
 
so it's when you uh when you hear those
 
 
so it's when you uh when you hear those
things you know then you realize like
 
 
things you know then you realize like
 
 
things you know then you realize like
how important it is you know how can you
 
 
how important it is you know how can you
 
 
how important it is you know how can you
not want to be out there speaking and
 
 
not want to be out there speaking and
 
 
not want to be out there speaking and
you know trying to make a difference and
 
 
you know trying to make a difference and
 
 
you know trying to make a difference and
help educate people
 
 
help educate people
 
 
help educate people
Kimberly Craig 7 Action News
 
 
 
 
Wow hopefully she helped a lot of people
 
 
Wow hopefully she helped a lot of people
 
 
Wow hopefully she helped a lot of people
telling her truth
